This is Jockel Podcast number 213 with echo Charles and me, Jockel Willick.
Good evening, echo.
Good evening.
Men.
This stuff that some sources sling around about America wanting out of this war,
not wanting to fight, is a crock of bullshit.
Americans love to fight traditionally.
All Americans love this sting and clash of battle.
You are here today for three reasons.
First, because you are here to defend your homes and your loved ones.
Second, you are here for your own self-respect,
because you would not want to be anywhere else.
Third, you are here because you are real men,
and all real men like to fight.
When you hear every one of you or kids,
you all admired the champion marble player, the fastest runner, the toughest boxer,
the big league ball players, and the all-American football players.
Americans love a winner.
Americans will not tolerate a loser.
Americans despise cowards.
Americans play to win all of the time.
I wouldn't give a hoot and hell for a man who lost and laughed.
That's why Americans have never lost nor will ever lose a war.
For the very idea of losing is hateful to an American.
You are not all going to die.
Only 2% of you right here today would die in major battle.
Death must not be feared.
Death in time comes to all men.
Yes, every man is scared in his first battle.
If he says he's not, he's a liar.
Some men are cowards, but they fight the same as brave men,
or they get to hell slammed out of them watching men fight,
who are just as scared as they are.
The real hero is the man who fights even though he is scared.
Some men get over their fright and amitted under fire.
For some it takes an hour, for some it takes days,
but a real man will never let his fear of death overpower his honor,
his sense of duty to his country, and his innate manhood.
Battle is the most magnificent competition in which a human being can indulge.
It brings out all that is the best, and it removes all that is base.
Americans pride themselves on being he men, and they are he men.
Remember that the enemy is just as frightened as you are, and probably more so.
They are not supermen.
All through your army careers, you men have bitched about what you call chicken shit drilling.
That, like everything else in the army, has a definite purpose.
That purpose is alertness.
A alertness must be bred into every soldier.
I don't give a fuck for a man who's not always on his toes.
You men are veterans, or you wouldn't be here.
You are ready for what's to come.
A man must be alerted all times if he expects to stay alive.
If you're not alert, sometimes a German son of an asshole bitch is going to sneak up behind you
and beat you to death with a sock full of shit.
There are 400 neatly marked graves somewhere in Sicily, all because one man went to sleep on the job.
But they're German graves because we caught the bastard asleep before they did.
An army is a team.
It lives, sleeps, eats, and fights as a team.
This individual heroic stuff is pure horseshit.
The biolist bastard who write that kind of stuff for the Saturday evening post.
Don't know anything more about real fighting under fire than they do about fucking.
We have the finest food, the finest equipment, the best spirit, and the best men in the world.
Why?
By God, I actually pity those poor sons of bitches we're going up against.
By God, I do.
My men don't surrender.
I don't want to hear of any soldier under my command being captured unless he's been hit.
Even if you are hit, you can still fight back.
That's not just bullshit, either.
The kind of man that I want my command is just like the Lieutenant in Libya.
Who, with a luger against his chest, jerked off his helmet, swept the gun aside with one hand,
and busted the hell out of the crowd with his helmet.
Then he jumped on the gun and went out and killed another German before they knew what the hell was coming off.
And all that time, this man had a bullet through along.
There was a real man.
All of the heroes are not storybook combat fighters, either.
Every single man in this army plays a vital role.
Don't ever let up.
Don't ever think that your job is unimportant.
Every man has a job to do and he must do it.
Every man has a vital link in the great chain.
What if every truck driver suddenly decided that he didn't like the wine of those shells overhead,
turned yellow and jumped headlong into a ditch?
The cowardly bastard would say, hell, they won't miss me.
Just one man in thousands.
But what if every man thought that way?
Where the hell will we be now?
What what our country, our loved ones, our homes, even the world be like,
no, God damn it.
Americans don't think like that.
Every man does his job.
Every man serves the whole.
Every department, every unit is important in the vast scheme of this war.
The ordinance man are needed to supply the guns and machinery of war to keep us rolling.
The quartermaster is needed to bring up food and clothes because where we are going,
there is no hell of a lot to steal.
Every last man on K.P. has a job to do, even the one who heats our water to keep us from getting the GI shits.
Each man must not think only of himself, but also of his buddy fighting beside him.
We don't want yellow cowards in this army.
They should be killed off like rats.
If not, they will go home after this war and breed more cowards.
The brave men will breed more brave men.
Kill off the goddamn cowards and we will have a nation of brave men.
One of the bravest men I ever saw was a fellow on top of a telegraph pole in the midst of a furious firefighting Tunisia.
I stopped and asked what the hell he was doing up there at a time like that.
He answered, fixing the wire, sir.
I asked isn't it a little unhealthy right about now?
He answered, yes, sir, but the goddamn wire has to be fixed.
I asked, don't those planes strafe in the road, bother you?
And he answered, no, sir, but you sure as hell do.
Now there was a real man, a real soldier.
There was a man who devoted all he had to his duty, no matter how seemingly insignificant his duty might appear at the time, no matter how great the odds.
And you should have seen those trucks on the road to Tunisia.
Those drivers were magnificent.
All day and all night they rolled over those son of a bitch and roads, never stopping, never faltering from their course, with shells bursting all around them all the time.
We got through on good old American guts.
Many of those men drove for over 40 consecutive hours.
These men weren't combat men, but they were soldiers with a job to do.
They did it.
And they want to hell of a way.
They were part of a team.
Without team effort, without them, the fight would have been lost.
All of the links in the chain pulled together and the chain became unbreakable.
Don't forget, you men don't know that I'm here.
No mention of that fact is to be made in any letters.
The world is not supposed to know what the hell happened to me.
I'm not supposed to be commanding this army.
I'm not even supposed to be here in England.
Let the first bastards to find out be the goddamn Germans.
Some day I want to see them raise up on their piss, soaked, tiny legs and how Jesus Christ.
It's the goddamn third army again and that son of a fucking bitch patent.
We want to get the hell over there.
The quicker we clean up this goddamn mess, the quicker we can take a little junk against the
purple pissing japs and clean out their nest too.
Before the goddamn Marines get all the credit.
Sure, we want to go home.
We want this war over with.
The quickest way to get it over with is to get the bastards who started it.
The quicker they are whipped, the quicker we can go home.
The shortest way home is through Berlin and Tokyo.
And when we get to Berlin, I am personally going to shoot that paper hanging son of a
bitch Hitler.
Just like I'd shoot a snake.
When a man is lying in a shell hole, if he just stays there all day, a German will get
to him eventually.
The hell with that idea?
The hell with taking it.
My men don't dig foxholes.
I don't want them to.
Foxholes only slow up an offensive.
Keep moving.
Don't give the enemy time to dig one either.
Will win this war, but will win it only by fighting and by showing the Germans that we
got more guts than they have or will ever have.
We're not just going to shoot the sons of bitches.
We're going to rip out their living goddamn guts and use them to grease the treads of
our tanks.
We're going to murder those lousy, hung cock suckers by the Bush-of-fucking basket.
War is a bloody killing business.
You've got to spill their blood or they will spill yours.
rip them up, baby.
Shoot them in the guts.
When shells are hitting all around you and you wipe the dirt off your face and realize
that instead of dirt, it's the blood and guts of what was once your best friend beside
you, you'll know what to do.
I don't want to get any messages saying I am holding my position.
We are not holding the goddamn thing.
Let the Germans do that.
We are advancing constantly and we are not interested in holding onto anything except
the enemy's balls.
We are going to twist his balls and kick the living shit out of them all the time.
Our basic plan of operation is to advance and keep advancing regardless of whether we have
to go over under or through the enemy.
We're going to go through him like crap through a goose, like shit through a tin horn.
From time to time there will be some complaints that we are pushing our people too hard.
I don't give up good goddamn about such complaints.
I believe in the old sound rule that an ounce of sweat will save a gallon of blood.
The harder we push, the more Germans we will kill.
The more Germans we kill, the fewer of our men will be killed.
Pushing means fewer casualties.
I want you all to remember that.
There is one great thing that you men will all be able to say after this war is over and
you are home once again.
You will be thankful that 20 years from now when you are sitting by the fireplace with your
grandson on your knee and he asked you what you did in the great World War II.
You won't have to cough, shift him to the other knee and say, well, your granddaddy shovel
shit in Louisiana.
You can look him straight in the eye and say, son, your granddaddy rode with the great third
army and a son of a goddamn bitch named Georgie Patton.
You sons of bitches, you all know how I feel.
I'll be proud to lead you wonderful guys in battle anytime, anywhere.
That is all.
And that speech was delivered in June of 1944, clearly by General George S. Patton.
In England, and he actually delivered that speech multiple times and this is one version
of it.
George Patton, if you don't know who it is, podcast 9, we covered his book, War as I
knew it.
You probably heard the shortened version of that speech in the movie Patton with George
S. Scott, which is good, not as good as the original though, they actually sanitized the
speech in the movie for Hollywood and for the American public, which is interesting.
It's interesting that they sanitize what someone says in a war movie, even though the
war movie is literally about killing people, lots of people, but General Patton, he knew
and understood the power of language, especially bad language.
His nephew asked his son, this is another thing I read that his nephew asked him about
his use of profanity.
And Patton said, when I want my men to remember something important to really make it
stick, I give it to them double dirty.
It may not sound nice to some bunch of little old ladies and afternoon tea party, but
it helps my soldiers to remember.
You can't run an army without profanity, and it has to be eloquent profanity.
An army without profanity couldn't fight its way out of a piss-soaked paper bag.
Just for the comments, I make sometimes I just buy God, get carried away with my own
eloquence.
So yeah, there's a time in place for profanity.
I, when I was in the SEAL teams, I used to swear a lot, when making a point.
And when making a point, obviously, you want to make it stick.
This is something.
Yeah.
I think I've talked about this before, but I would bring my son out to training events.
And I never swear in front of my family, even right now I don't swear in front of my family.
So when my son was probably six years old, seven years old, and I'd bring him out to
a training site to observe some training.
So he could start getting some well-getting kind of anoculated to loud noises.
Machine gunfire, teaching him this, the fundamentals of tactics and stuff.
So when he'd come out and watch training, and then I would be debriefing.
And you know, it would just be F-bomb, F-bomb sentence, half sentence, F-bomb, F-bomb.
I remember the first time he saw me debrief like that.
And it's also the first time he probably saw me, you know, I don't want to use the word
emotional, but he's the first time he saw real intensity for me.
Because you're trying to make a point to the guys.
And I will freely say that at the time I would get really in the zone because I'm thinking
that the guys that I'm training, I want them to absorb the message because I want them
to go overseas and get killed.
So, you know, there are some levels of intensity that would happen.
So yeah, sometimes the language comes out and should have an impact.
If you use it too much, obviously loses its impact.
So like I said, we covered Patton's book, or as I knew it a long time ago.
But there's Patton didn't just write that book.
He actually was a fairly prolific writer.
And some of what he wrote wasn't meant to be literature.
It was things like general instructions to his troops.
So I got some of those for us to look at just because they're, you know, they're good stuff.
So this is one.
There's two that we're going to go over today.
This is from headquarters, third United States Army.
This March, 1944, subject letter of instruction, letter of instruction, number one,
two core division and separate unit commanders.
So this is one that's written to the commanders of the subordinate units underneath Patton.
Starts off with general.
This letter will orient you officers of higher echelons in the principles of command, combat
procedure, and administration which obtain in this army and will guide you in the conduct
of your several commands, part number two, command, leadership, full duty.
Each and his appropriate sphere will lead in person.
Any commander who fails to obtain his objective and who is not dead or severely wounded
has not done his full duty.
That's by the way, just how he's kicking this thing off.
And we've definitely talked about that one before.
But there you go, welcome to working for George Patton if you fail to obtain your objective
and you're not dead or severely wounded.
Then you haven't done your duty.
So that's the basis on which we're building this stuff.
Continues visits to the front.
The commanding general or chief of staff never both at once and one member of each of the
general staff sections should visit the front daily to save duplication.
The chief of staff will designate the sector.
Each is to visit.
The function of these staff officers is to observe not to metal.
Very important.
Don't go up there and start trying to make little changes.
No, you're up there to observe.
Continuing, in addition to their own specialty, they must observe and report anything of military
importance, remember to that your primary mission as a leader is to see with your own eyes
and to be seen by the troops while engaged in personal reconnaissance.
So think about that.
Not just see what's going on, you want them to see you too.
That you're out there with the troops.
Next section is execution.
In carrying out a mission, the promulgation of the order represents not over 10% of your
responsibility.
The remaining 90% consists of assuring by means of personal supervision on the ground by
yourself and your staff proper and vigorous execution.
How important is that?
The passing of the order is 10% of your duties.
The other 90% is making sure it gets done.
You don't hear that very often.
I told them what to do.
I passed the word, man.
I passed the word.
Not my problem.
Wrong answer.
That's actually, 90% of your problem.
Go ahead.
The one that I've maybe used, I don't know.
Maybe heard, I don't know.
It's like, hey, I can only say it so many times.
I can't even feel it.
Yeah, that's a good one.
That's a good one.
You know, I've told him a bunch of times.
Yeah.
I sent the email.
No, 10% of your responsibility is passing the information.
90% is assuring by means of personal supervision on the ground.
Vigorous proper and vigorous execution.
I think about that next time you put out the word and then you kick back into your chair.
Wrong answer.
Next year, staff conferences.
I'm abbreviating this thing.
Daily at the earliest possible moment that the G2 and G3 can get their maps posted.
So G2 and G3, those are the, that's Intel and operations.
As soon as they can get their maps posted, a staff conference will be held, attended by
the Commanding General Chief of Staff and the heads of all general staff sections.
And he goes through who those are.
Then the reason I had this part, because I'm not reading this whole thing.
But he says any person present when they statement to make will do so briefly.
Check.
Now then they're to talk.
You're out in the under here yourself.
You're not in there so that the Commanding General, the boss, the CEO, gets to see that
you're in there and you said something smart.
Actually, just be quiet.
And if you have to say something, make it brief.
It's supposed to be a brief.
So that's called a brief.
And just to mention that again, I'm not reading this entire thing, but we're eating some
big chunks of it.
Talks about rest periods.
Rest periods.
And we know there's big controversy from my world when it comes to rest.
Because once a day, no, that's probably inaccurate.
Probably between one and three times a day, someone via various social media messaging,
whatever says to me, get more rest and sleep enough and all these things.
Otherwise, my world is going to turn into a disaster, which wait and I'll not watch.
So here's what the suit, but, and you know what I always say.
Of course, it's in the book, discipline, it was freedom, field, minute.
I wrote a book and said, you need to get sleep.
Sleep is important without sleep.
All these bad things happen.
I know this and I propagated all the time.
Sleep, you know, as soon as you were telling people not to sleep, no, actually, I tell
people to sleep all the time.
You need to sleep too, perform optimally, you need to sleep.
Different people need different amounts of sleep.
Have them at sleep, you need to get it.
It's fine.
It's great.
I support it.
Here we go, rest periods.
Staff personnel, commissionant and listed who do not rest, do not last.
All sections must run a duty roster and enforce compliance.
The intensity of staff operations during battle is periodic at the Army and Corps levels
the busiest times of the period from one to three hours after daylight and from three to
five hours after dark.
In the lower echelons and in the administrative and supply staffs, the time periods is different,
but just as definite.
When the need arises, everyone, when the need arises, everyone must work all the time, but
these emergencies are not frequent.
Unfutigged men, fast-bonger and work better at high pressure.
So like I say, like I tell people all the time, get sleep.
Not bad for you.
Do you need to sleep until mine?
No, you don't.
Well, some people do.
Depends when you go.
I didn't receive a return text from you today.
Until I'm thinking it was around 10.
Do you?
Am I right or wrong?
Well, you know, you probably right.
I don't have those records.
We can check.
So is that what time you woke up?
Just out of curiosity.
Yes.
Do you feel well rested right now?
Ready to perform.
Yes.
Ready to bring your egg in.
Yes, sir.
It's a long story.
It's worth it.
We up late last night watching the fights.
No.
Conorczestique was super early.
Conorczestique was only 40 seconds long.
Yeah.
I could have been in bed at.
We're talking nine.
I was.
I was going to bed and I just like literally going to bed when I
seen the results come through.
Okay.
But I'm not used to going to sleep that early.
So I ended up waking up in the middle of the night, not
being able to go back sleep.
And then you hit the rest of it.
Yeah.
Walk up it.
Okay.
So rest is important.
There you go.
It's an order from Paton that you need to get rest.
Next section is location of command posts.
The farther forward, the command post are located.
The last time is wasted in driving to and from the front.
The ideal situation would be for the army command post to be within one, half hour
drive in a command post in reconnaissance car of the division command post.
The driving time to the front and from the command post, the driving time to the front
from the command post of the lower units should be correspondingly shorter.
Much time and wire saved if command posts of higher units are at or near one of the command
posts of the next level of the national.
So why am I talking about that?
Because the reason is think about how important communication is between the senior leadership
and the front line troops.
And when you have big separation, now what's nice these days, then he goes into a bunch
of stuff talking about when he's talking about wire versus radio.
Because you know what that means, they used to actually string out wire.
So if you had a forward post to miles from me, we would string wire between the two of
us so we could talk.
Like phone wire, like little phone wire.
And in that opening speech when he's talking about a guy in Tunisia, putting wire up
on a telephone, that's what he's talking about.
Because radios at that time were way less reliable than they are now.
So now we can overcome a lot of this with technology, but just showing the importance of,
and by the way, he's not even talking about wire.
He's talking about being able to go there and see what's happening.
So there's ways to overcome this.
I guess my point in calling this out is showing how important visible leadership is, right?
How important face to face is from a leadership perspective.
How map procedure, next section, maps.
We are too prone to believe that we acquire merit solely through the study of maps in
the safe conclusion of a command post.
Maps are necessary in order to see the whole panoramic of battle and to permit intelligent
planning.
Further, and this is very important, a study of the map will indicate where critical situations
exist or are apt to develop and so indicate where the commander should be.
And the high-rashalons, a layered map of the whole theater is reasonable to scale, showing
roads, railway streams, towns, more useful than a large scale map, cluttered up with
the ground force.
So the reason that I put this in here is looking visibly, visually at something real.
This is a little bit of a, just an eye opener, right?
You have virtually, everything's virtual now, right?
We can look at virtual charts, we can see virtual diagrams, we can see virtual spreadsheets,
we can see market data, and I get it.
And there's many, much of the time, virtual data has superior, some superior qualities of it,
as you can manipulate it, you can watch it move, you can dig into it, you can click on the
link, right?
And see where the source of the data is, and all that stuff is good.
All I'm saying, and the only reason I bring this up is because sometimes the physical
map, the physical chart, the physical spreadsheet that you can look at that you can put
up on a wall and say, let's talk through this.
Sometimes, and part of this, I think, is just my personality, my, the way that I, you know,
people have different types of learning, right?
My, the way my brain works, sometimes to look at something that's actually physically
there, sometimes works better for me than the virtual thing that I'm looking out on a screen.
Just throwing that out there makes sense.
I don't know if you feel that way.
Well, I feel like if, you know, when you're talking about a map or even like a diagram,
if I have it physically in front of me and then, and you, and then you're physically in
front of me.
So we're both physically there.
We can kind of interact with it in the physical world, so I can point here and maybe
have been marketed with the pencil.
Which you can get, which you can get, that's what I'm saying.
Like nowadays, you can have an iPad, right?
And we could be marking that things up.
So there's, there's some closure that gap is getting closed on this.
Yeah, the iPad's, it's close, but not really, because iPad's only this big.
True.
And it's like when you write on it, there's that, what you call, like a barrier, like,
at very least psychological barrier between the actual document.
You know, and, and us, it feels like it, right?
Yeah.
Even though you're marking on, you know, it's a touchscreen.
It feels like, here's one that this is a real simple straightforward one.
The difference between a physical checklist on a piece of paper or on a whiteboard, compared
to, there's about five million apps, including native apps to your phone that do
checklists.
I personally think that I find physical lists in a notebook or on a whiteboard.
Yeah, better.
What do you think?
I think it's funny how you use the expression native apps.
Was that correct?
It's advanced.
Yes, yes.
That's what they are, right?
Like Apple has comes with it.
Yeah, it comes with it.
Yeah, it's good.
Yeah, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
I could dig it.
They should contact me.
Actually.
Sure.
Of course, they should.
They should.
And I could dial that app where it would be squared away.
Very tactile.
Right.
Yeah, but also the one of the problems is one of the disadvantages of those kind
of lists is because things are hidden, right?
Like you have to open that list, right?
So you can't see it.
So you look at a project and you don't even see the depth of the project.
Whereas if you have like a physical list that you're looking at, you say, oh, that
project is going to take some labor.
Yeah, I feel it for sure.
I think I'm kind of used to the apps though, as far as like notes and whatever.
You still it.
So I think like anything, the more you get, you still it, the more you're like, oh, I like
this or whatever.
I used the notes one.
So easy.
Like when in the seal teams, PowerPoint just started to just run everything.
Everything was briefed on PowerPoint.
And that is one time when you would look, when you'd bring the guys around to look
at a map or bring the guys around to look at an image, that's all that you're can draw
on.
No much clearer than just everyone sitting there.
There's the separation, I guess you called it.
What you call it a virtual separation, there's some separation.
There's a barrier.
When you'd actually pull out a map and say, here's the route, you'd be like drawing
on there.
And you'd say, okay, there's a hill over here.
And people, I don't know, people seem to get it better.
Same thing with something called a forced list.
Which sounds really cool.
But all it means is this is who's going on this mission.
And also where they're sitting in the vehicles.
The virtual forced list almost always sucked.
It was almost always like slightly wrong.
And people wouldn't know where that, but we would do it on a magnet board.
And everybody had their own magnet.
I still have my magnet for my first deployment.
It says, my magnet says, just as Jocco, it's yellow.
Well, it's the magnets brown.
And then it says, Jocco in its off center.
It looks like somebody did it in five minutes.
Not like this big high speed thing.
No, it says really kind of rudimentary magnets.
It says Jocco.
So when you get your magnet, that's just, that's your magnet.
That's for the whole trip.
I'm making it into a bigger deal than it is.
I'm gonna see you pretty dope.
But on that first deployment to Iraq, that was my magnet.
When I left, I took the magnet with me.
Because there's some good memories with the magnet, right?
See that thing in the, because you have on the, on the dry erase board,
the magnetic dry erase board, you have outlines of the vehicles.
And then you just put your magnet gets put in the position.
You look at the board.
You know where you're at, right?
Yeah.
And most of the time, you know I was in vehicle two in the vehicle commander seat.
That's where I was most of the time, depending on what we were doing.
Sometimes I would be, if I was like the assault force commander,
I might be in vehicle three, but whatever.
But that little magnet.
You know where it is right now?
On your refrigerator.
Yes, it is.
So when I look, go to the fridge, right?
I remember that magnet.
And one of my buddies named Johnny, like one day he sent me a picture of his magnet.
Sure.
And I said in the picture of my back.
Yeah.
Wait, what could so, okay, so you're in the magnet.
It's just a circle.
No, it's not a circle.
It's a square.
It's a rectangle.
But is it like just a raw magnet though?
Or is it raw magnet?
A raw magnet with a, with what's it called?
You ever seen those little machines where you make a label?
A label.
A label maker.
So there's a little yellow label.
And the magnet just says, jockel.
Boom, there it is.
And it's off center.
That's what makes me, that's what's corresponding.
It's not like this special thing.
I'll say, okay, here.
Boom, done.
Yeah, but it's like one of the, for lack of a bit of terms.
I remember for lack of a, one of the trinkets of the missions, you know, it's like
one of the memorabilia or whatever.
It might be, I don't know, I'd have to think of.
I'm sure there's other trinkets.
But that is the one thing that I got.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, I'm right there.
Everyone's so I get those kind.
Something that's of use.
Not major massive use, but it's like an essential part of the whole.
When we made Tasking to Bruiser, the first thing I was, okay, guys, we need magnets.
And you know, everyone's like thinking, uh, whatever.
We'll just use the computer and all that stuff.
And it's so much harder.
Imagine this, you've got 40 people, 40 little names.
And you're dragging them around on PowerPoint.
And so what, you deleted one by accident, where did that one go?
It's from a different.
And magnets, like you have a space on the magnet board.
Oh, these guys aren't going on the mission.
They're over here.
But you can see them.
And then you say, wait, we need another machine gun or, oh, cool.
Who's the machine gunner?
Smith's the machine gunner.
Pull it in the turret.
Boom, we're good.
Yeah.
The physical representation is important.
Yep.
Yeah, I know what it is.
I know what it is.
Okay.
So I, can you know, Photoshop is?
I do know what it is.
It's not a native app though.
No, sir.
So that's after market one for sure.
So the, okay.
So Photoshop is like, really when you get used to it, it's like, oh, it's simple.
But here's the difference.
And I just distilled it down.
It's the interface.
The interface.
That's what makes it like, that's the barrier.
Even if it's a simple interface, like PowerPoint, you know, they're still in interface.
You got to learn how to use PowerPoint, right?
So even after you learn how to use PowerPoint, you still have to interface with the system.
You do.
But with a physical thing, there is no interface.
There's just boom, boom, we're doing it.
You look, if I want this little jockey magnet to physically move to the front seat, watch
me physically move to the front seat.
There's no interface that happens.
Exactly.
It's really how it is.
Yeah.
So the feedback is instant.
Big as kind of a big deal.
I remember, I, well, I have to reconfirm this with life.
But there was, I wouldn't say resistance.
But questions.
You know, because I think I went out and just bought magnets for task in the bruiser.
Like, okay, here's the magnet.
Here's the magnet.
The magnet boards were expensive, too.
I want to say they were, I want to say a big magnet board costs over $100.
Yeah.
Where's a lot of money when you're in the Navy and you got three kids, like, 100 bucks
is no joke.
Oh, yeah.
For just some board.
Yeah.
But well, worth every penny.
Every penny.
So do you, because you like to refysical books, too?
I do.
And I'm not saying necessarily compared to audible, but like I used the Kindle.
Right?
There's little interface going on right there, too.
But technically, it's quicker.
There's less physical work to use the Kindle than a book.
Yeah.
I think what would happen to happen for me is I would have to use a Kindle or whatever digital
reader thing until I learn the interface.
Because right now, I can't stand those things.
Yeah.
Well, in the Kindle app or whatever, but yeah, yeah, it's the same thing.
Kindle actually, I think the actual Kindle is bigger.
You know what's interesting about my kids do for a school and whatnot.
They read the book as they listen to the audio book, which is kind of interesting.
Yeah.
You know what?
I did that one time.
You know what book I did it for?
Field's a fire by James Webb.
I was listening to it and reading it.
And I don't know why.
I don't know why I decided to do that.
Maybe because it was a fiction book.
I don't know.
But for some reason, that's what I did.
Well, there's all kinds of like different reading methods.
You know, this is all these methods like to read, whether it be faster, improve comprehension,
you know, this way.
And one of them is to skim, like rudimentary skim.
But kind of like literally like three seconds per page.
Maybe even one second per page.
Okay.
What is that?
The game null thing first.
And it creates this idea of whatever things about.
So you skim at first and then you're going to go back to your idea.
Okay.
I was going to really throw that idea out the window.
Just came in and then you leave the window.
Yeah.
Actually, so when I get a book, a potential book for the podcast, I will say I do some
of that.
I'll be looking through it because you know, the book for the podcast is going to have
to be a good book.
Right.
And I got to make sure that fits in with the podcast.
So I'll skim it and look for scenes.
Yeah.
That I go.
Oh, that's a good one.
What I do is I read the end.
As jacked up as that is spoiler alert.
I spoil the book for myself.
Even though most of the time, you kind of know what's going to happen.
I mean, it's a war book.
It's like, oh, it's a world war, too.
Cool.
We know what's going to happen.
Right.
If the first person person that's writing it, they live to write the book.
So you know they're alive.
Right.
Most of the time, there's been a few where the person, you know, this is recovered from
them or whatever.
But yeah.
So I skim through them and then I find the information.
But I can't, I haven't been able to prep for a podcast virtually yet.
All of them have been even though it's one where I was traveling and I decided I was going
to do something that I had it on PDF and I went through the whole thing and like I outlined
it and stuff while virtually.
And then when I got home, I printed it and I brought it in.
Yeah.
There must be something with the like the relationship between, you know, the material,
the physical material in your eyeballs or something.
So let's just say this from a leadership perspective.
Here's the take away.
If the virtual methodology is not working, perhaps try a physical version.
That's going to be my suggestion after all this, all throughout this assessment of general
patterns, it words.
Check.
All right.
Now we get to plans and what's cool about this, his plans, his sections, like the last
sections of a couple paragraphs along the section before that couple paragraphs along.
The section about planning arguably the most important section to be given by the commander
of how we're going to plan.
This is that one of the shortest sections here plans.
Plans must be simple and flexible.
I got that, I utilized that right there so much.
It was ridiculous and it was so powerful to be able to say, hey, look, because in the
sealed teams, they would lean towards wanting and not just in sealed teams.
They people do this in business all the time.
They want to make, they want to make plans ultra detailed because they think the more
detail the plan, the better the plan will be executed.
That's actually wrong.
The more detail you put in the, look, you need to have some level of
detail, but if you go overboard with the detail, now you're working on things that don't
matter.
You're trying to do things in a way that don't matter.
You can't do that.
So that's how we start to have plans must be simple and flexible.
Because nothing's going to go the way you expected to go.
Then he says this, actually they only form a datum plane from which you build as necessity
directs or opportunity offers.
The plan is actually, is barely anything.
It's like, hey, this is the general idea and then we'll make adjustments as necessity
directs or as we have opportunities.
They should be made by the people who are going to execute them.
Right?
Incredible.
Once again, these are things that I did and I, when I read that, I got the man that
looked so lucky that I did that because the force of plan down someone's throat or
make a, or even worse, take the problem, multiply it exponentially, force the plan down
on the people below you.
That is very detailed and doesn't have any flexibility.
That's just failure.
I'd get to see that man get to see some, some tasking to commander coming through training
and look, the guy's not a bad human guy actually wants to get in fact wanting to do a
good job can drive you to try and make a more detailed plan and force it down onto your
people.
That's not necessarily a person that's a bad leader.
They just haven't learned the lesson yet.
That might be a person that's super engaged.
Once do a great job over a cheever.
Hey, look, I know how to do this.
It puts together this highly detailed plan.
That's not a good call, man.
It's nothing against the person, but you have to do that person is, show them the light.
Right?
You're going to bring them to the light.
Okay.
So then he goes through, it goes through a section on reconnaissance.
You can never have too much reconnaissance.
Use every means available before during an after battle.
Reports must be facts not opinions negative as well as positive.
Do not believe intercepts blindly.
Crosscheck.
Sometimes messages are not out to be intercepted.
So a bunch of good little things to think about there.
Reports must not must be facts not opinions.
There's a term that uses the military.
It appears to be a T.B.
So you'd see a person holding something.
You're pretty sure it's a weapon, but you don't know.
Then you say appears to be a weapon.
It appears to be a weapon or you say people moving into a, in a, appears to be a tactical position.
So it's just one of those little things because there's a huge difference between me
saying they were moving weapons into the building or they were moving what appeared to be
weapons for the building.
Right.
Yeah.
It's not an established fact.
It's established fact.
And if you remember when we talked about the me lime acircure, that's one of those things
where the difference between appears to be.
And this is could be, can kind of cause those kind of problem.
Same thing with police shootings.
Right.
Someone saying, hey, this guy has a weapon.
Yeah.
Or this guy appears to have a weapon.
There's a big difference between those two things.
Yeah.
The lead, like legal, when they're speaking like legal terms, they're always super careful
about that.
Like, oh, they'll say allegedly, or, you know, like, even though the guy just did it on camera.
Yeah.
Like, be a suspect.
Even that, that's like a suspect I'm watching it right here on the video.
Yeah.
I'm not proven in the court a lot yet.
So, you know, it's like a kind of that legal one.
Next, sections about orders.
Formal orders.
Formal orders will be preceded by letters of instruction and by personal conferences.
In this way, the whole purpose of the operation will be made clear together with the mission
to be accomplished by each major unit.
In this way, if communication breaks down during combat, each commander can and must so
act as to attain the general objective.
This is a little something we called decentralized command.
Right?
Everyone has to know what the main objective is.
So when communication breaks down, which it will, we can still move forward.
The order itself will be short.
A company via sketch.
It tells what to do, not how.
It is really a memorandum and assumption of responsibility by the issuing commander.
So I'll bunch of key things there.
The order's supposed to be short.
The order's accompanied by a sketch.
Once again, we get this visual representation thing seems to be important.
And this is an important one.
It tells what to do, not how.
I have to brief people on that one all the time.
So and you'll also notice this, four motors will be preceded by letters of instruction
and by personal conferences.
So a trick question that I ask companies when I'm working with them, what's better form
of communication, email or voice or face to face.
And of course everyone says voice, voice, voice, voice.
They say face to face.
I'll say what's more, what's a better form of communication?
Email or phone call.
And if it goes, oh, phone calls so much better.
That's everyone's gut instinct.
Oh, yeah.
Talking to someone so much more clear.
And then I say, okay, here's the problem with just talking.
If we just talk, I say one thing, you hear something else.
That all the time.
So that's why I follow up when you and I have a conversation.
I follow up with an email and say, I just want to make sure we're good on this.
Make sure that we're going to do A, B, and C.
And then you say, hey, I thought we were doing A, B, and D.
And I said, oh, no, sorry.
My phone, I didn't explain it clearly.
So that's one way.
The other thing is the opposite is also true.
If I just send you an email, I want you to do this.
There's no tone.
There's no expression.
You might not see the importance.
I might have written clearly.
So if it's important, I send you an email and I say, hey, echo.
Just following up to make sure that we're on the same page because I'm not always the best
at writing stuff.
But when the email I just sent you, I wanted to make sure that you understood it was A, B,
and C. Did that come through?
And you're like, oh, yeah, definitely.
Or you're like, wait a second.
So you want to use both.
And that's exactly what he's saying here.
You write it.
You speak it.
Yeah, you ever see those guys?
Or talk to those guys where you talk to them.
They're all excited.
You can totally tell.
And when they text you, it's like two, three, sometimes one word answers.
And so you're kind of like, oh, man, he must be kind of mad because his tone now is way different
than when I was talking to him or whatever.
You sort of make your own interpretation of the thing, depending on like maybe, I don't
know, maybe how you do it or something like that.
But some people that's just how they write.
First of all, they'll be like, hey, get back to me, period.
And it's like, dang, this guy's mad.
He wants me to get back to him.
My son.
And then his text is like, just the most horrible.
Yeah, like you.
Okay.
Tcha.
Then again, but you do express certain tones.
More comedic, I think, for comedic effect.
Well, in my experience, anyway, I'm sure you have a whole thing.
But yeah, when I was texting him, your boy, he same deal.
He was like the younger version that he just says, no, what do you say?
He was in a surf contest the other day.
So he's, I was somewhere else.
And, you know, I'm texting, hey, do you make it through the first teet?
Because the way surf contest work, you surf in heats.
And you have to get in the top three and eat heat to advance.
And then eventually you get in the finals.
So I'm texting him.
And this is a teenage boy, right?
So it's not like he's not on his phone.
I'm texting him.
How'd you do?
Hey, how'd the first teet go?
Did you make it through?
Nothing heard.
Nothing heard all day.
Finally, the end of the day.
I say, hey, did you finish the contest?
How did you do?
He writes back, got to, which meant he got second place in the contest.
That's all I said.
All his small letters.
Yeah.
How does it even do small letters?
Because it's automatically kept somehow on his phone.
No automatic application says, got to, which is the 17 year old boys way of saying,
hey, dad, I got second place today.
Thanks for showing some concern and I appreciate your support as a father.
I had a great time.
That's all in there.
Right?
No.
Got to.
So anyways.
Yeah.
Follow up with, and you know, then when I called him later or whatever, he's like,
oh, yeah, first, you know, he's giving me all the details.
Got to.
Yeah.
And he talks about something called fragmentary orders, frag orders after the initial
order, you will seldom get another formal order, but you may get fragmentary orders in
writing or early by phone or personally.
Take down all oral orders and repeat them back.
Have your juniors do the same here.
Again, can you imagine how many times and how important it says that this guy, general
patent, by the way, is saying, listen, when you get told to do something, write it down and
read it back.
That's just the standard operating procedure for life when you get told to do something right
it down, read it back.
There's nothing that instills more confidence in me than when someone wants to do and they're
taking notes on it.
That's just, you go, okay, cool.
I can barely even trust, look, I'm not saying this in a bad way, but I barely even
trust waitresses or waiters.
When I'm telling them what I want, and they're just looking at me like, I got this.
I'm always nervous.
I guess maybe in really bad writing, sometimes I can't help myself but I'll say, you
must be pretty good.
You know, I'm a bad guy, I got you.
They're looking at me like, they do this all the time.
Do you think that that's like a move like a flex for service industry, one of the
like, oh yeah, I'm so good.
A little bit of a flex and also just a skill, right?
Right, right, that's what I'm doing.
They're showing off the skill.
Yeah, and sometimes I don't think they're showing off sometimes I just think that's
what they do.
Yeah, they're just trying to, you know, they're saying like, yeah, I got this.
That's what they do on an individual level or as a company.
Because that individual, that individuals like, hey, you know, go ahead, because you
know, I always want to order right now.
You know, when they come over to offer you water, I want to order that.
I don't want to, I don't want to go through this sequence.
When you come to me, I want to order, because I already know what I'm getting.
I'm getting a seizure salad and a ribeye.
That's already happening.
So we already know that walking into the place.
I don't need to look at the menu.
I don't want to look at the menu.
So when they come over and I say, they say, you know, they start pouring my water.
I say, I'm actually ready to order.
And sometimes they just like, I say, okay, go.
Kind of a pro move, right?
I think over time, I think over time I become more comfortable with it.
And now when someone does that, I know there are pro.
So I guess now I'm good with it.
I didn't use to be.
You know, when I transitioned from eating at, let's say, the restaurants where there's no
pros, right? Like a normal restaurant, people are just in there.
They're taking notes, right?
Oh, this is like, this is their secondary job, whatever their teenager, whatever.
Like this is they're just doing this to make whatever some extra money.
When you go to a real restaurant where there's pros, I have confidence in those people.
You until there's a mistake.
Oh, yes, yes.
But, and I think, I know this sucks with my wife literally.
And I asked her, was it day before?
When I went over very recently, the yesterday before we were at a sushi restaurant,
he was our first time there.
It was nice inside, but it was like, it was kind of new casual trendy nice.
Okay.
You know, that kind of little nervous little bit.
Kind of minimalist, but it's like, you know, if it's like, is this a high end restaurant
or just super train?
So the jury was still out on that whole situation.
So whatever, and then, you know, he pulled one of those.
I respected them for it.
I like what they do that on that level, but there is a question mark in the back
of the anime because I'm one of the annoying type order.
You've got special things, you know.
You've got to this and can have extra this and I don't want to, I don't want to cope
but until the final.
I've got this.
Also kind of like chess, you know, a good chess player is looking at the chess board in chunks.
So they don't have to remember every piece.
They're remembering whole schemes of maneuver that are going to happen.
Yeah.
When you're ordering in the restaurant, when you say, I want steak and see, like, they
are already in it. So they all actually are remembering is when you say, oh, I'd like
the peppercorn sauce medium, right?
That's the only thing they really need to remember.
They remembered everything else.
Yeah.
So yeah.
I'm with you though.
Like, when I, if someone's like, boom, boom, they're on it and they bring everything,
especially the annoying sides.
Okay.
So me and my wife's like, this too, where she'll be like, can I, she want different sauces
that you don't normally get with it, you know, like that kind, me too.
And then I'm, yeah.
No, it's a, it's a, it's a pain to have those specialty requests.
But it's so, it makes it so much better.
But nonetheless, if, if they come through with that, boom, without being quote, what
reminded, I don't even, me saying, remind it like a.
It sounds condescending, but I think it's not just, don't give you what you asked for.
What do you just suck it up and just deal with it?
Or do you say something?
Which one?
What, like, what do you mean say something?
Okay.
I'm gonna get this or whatever, with a, with a, with a, but they don't, they do they
actually, for guilty or they act just super annoyed.
Oh, I don't, I don't, I don't remember any time anyone, I'm acting annoyed, but have
you ever, I've done that where I've asked for some little specific thing and then they
don't deliver.
And then I say, hey, you know, I actually asked for this and they're like, and they're
acting annoyed at me.
Yeah.
I can see how that can happen.
And I can see why I deserve it, right?
So I asked if I could, but this one feels too.
So I, when somebody messes something up, I'm kind of like, okay, well, that's just, this
is how it is all.
Yeah, I feel like I'm jamming up the whole system because I use the work service
industry long time.
So the, you know, you have a system and it works so good, especially when you're dealing
with like people after people, you know, group, and group, it like all day and the system
works so good.
And it's probably formulated off of like something, something that everyone's cooperating
with, they'll tell you that.
It's working.
And I'm not cooperating.
I feel, because I'm the customer who's not technically cooperating, you know, because
it starts with what drinks.
Hi, everybody sit down.
We, you know, one minute should be like one minute.
Water drinks, water drinks, you want anything to drink besides water, blah, blah, blah,
me.
I'm like, map tagers.
But yeah.
So, bro, I'm looking like, yeah, I do want a drink, but how's this?
The drink, I want the drink to come with the food already jamming up the whole system.
So they should be annoyed with me.
In fact, I want to say they should be, but if they're annoyed with me, I understand.
Oh, I'm annoying or Eddie.
And it doesn't stop there.
But they'll bring out the sushi, whatever.
It'll be like, hey, can I have two sides of the extra, so I'd be, say, you'll sauce and
Terry Oki sauce.
I'm just going to have Terry Oki sauce.
You're going to say, oh, this guy.
You're just ordered like, everybody in here is doing the game.
You're over here doing all this stuff.
I'm over here trying to memorize your order without writing it down and you're
over throwing this at me.
You know, so I understand.
But I think, well, to my point earlier, they don't have to memorize your
order.
They're just like, oh, this guy has got these two things that are outside the normal
box.
This is only really two things after.
I think, yeah, but I think that's what happens.
I think you're right.
All this means look, you're a leader.
You're a junior leader.
Your boss is going to tell you do something.
Do yourself a favor.
Do your boss a favor.
Don't make him wonder if you're a waiter or a waiter.
It's not going to handle this scenario.
Don't make him wonder that.
You whip out your notebook and you go, hey, boss, let me just read this back to you.
You told me, because I want to get this 100% right.
And you say, okay, awesome.
Up the comments level.
Good idea.
That's my recommendation.
Next section, warning orders, warning orders are vital and must be issued in time.
This requirement applies not only to combat units, but also the surgeon signal officer
quarterback master and ordinance officer engineering officer who must get warning orders
promptly.
They too have plans to make.
And warning orders is the initial thing that you tell the troops, hey, we might
be attacking.
Get ready for this.
That's a warning order.
I sent somebody a warning order the other day.
Oh, yeah.
I remember who to us.
You know, I literally, because he's another team guy.
And I said, hey, here's a warning order.
You call it a warning order, like classified.
Here's the warning order.
Because I was just giving the heads up.
We got a possible scenario.
I'll do that too.
I'll say new mission though.
All indicate what this is coming.
So here's the thing with that.
New mission means you're going to tell them exactly what's going on.
Warning order, you give them just because warning order is just a heads up.
Right?
This might be happening.
Here's kind of the general thing we think is going to be happening.
You can give it to them a little bit earlier.
You mission means now you got all this prep to do because you didn't get a warning order.
Oh, my stuff.
Step up your game.
Keep trying.
Next, keep troops informed.
Use every means before and after combat to tell troops what they're going to do and
what they have done.
Boom, there you go.
I believe there's a whole section in the book called Leadership Strategy and Tactics.
And I think it's literally called to keep the troops informed.
Next administration supply.
I was thinking, all you know, I'll skip this because whatever.
No, here's what it says.
The onus of supply rests equally on the giver and the taker.
That is so important.
Instead of hey, we, we, we, we, we, we, we're our dang supplies.
It's their fault.
It's like no, actually it's my fault.
And then he says this for units must anticipate needs and ask for supplies in time.
They must stand ready to use all their means to help supplies.
The supplies service must get the things asked for to the right place at the right
time.
They, they must do more.
By reconnaissance, they will anticipate demands and start the supplies up before
they're called for.
So this is what's interesting.
You see both sides have to take extreme ownership of the delivery of the supplies.
And what you get is you get inner locking fields of fire overlapping.
So inner locking and overlapping fields of fire, which is a good Zach Lee.
What you want.
Meaning overlapping fields of fire, meaning yours, I'm shooting to the north west and
your shooting also part of your coverage is to the north west, but then you're to get a
little bit more to the east too.
So we're both looking and we're overlapping overlapping fields of fire.
That's what we want.
And that's what that's what when you have extreme ownership on both sides, you get overlapping
fields of fire, which means the chances of something being missed are less because the
fields of fire are overlapping.
Oh, both got it come never said that before.
It's good.
Yeah, because even field of fire overlap, almost like I'm going to clean up that analogy.
And that's going to end up being a very powerful analogy.
Yeah, it's like you both got it covered, you know, you both got it come down.
I say something close to it a lot, which is, you know, I say, look, when every person
whenever in the chain of command is taking ownership of the problems of problems, it's
solved.
There's more to it than that because when you take ownership of the problem and I take
ownership of the same problem, there's overlapping fields of fire and we will kill that
problem because you're going to see it from your angle, maybe you get 80% of it solved.
I got that other 20% double inch.
Yes.
And then it says this, the desperate determination to succeed is just as vital to supply
as it is to the firing line, the desperate determination.
Meaning, look, guys in the front line, we know their lives are in danger.
Supply has to have the same attitude, logistics wins the wars.
They got a chunk in here on replacements, they got a chunk in here on hospitals, they got
a chunk in here on decorations.
Decorations are for the purpose of raising the fighting value of troops.
Therefore, they must be awarded promptly, have a definite officer on your staff, educated
in writing citations and see that they get through.
Boy, we don't do a good job of this anymore.
The awards process is painful.
Next section is on discipline.
Anyways, going back to decorations real quick, that means when you're running a business,
when you're running a team and someone does something well, recognize and for it.
Technically, promptly, it means something.
The next section is called discipline, which we're definitely fond of.
There's only one kind of discipline, perfect discipline.
If you do not enforce and maintain discipline, you are potential mergers.
You must set the example.
Check.
Believe me, Paton is into discipline.
We're going to read another section that goes into.
That's always got in here.
Next section of rumors reports based on information secured through reconnaissance conducted
afterdark should be viewed with skepticism.
The same thing applies to reports from walking wounded and stragglers.
These latter seem to justify themselves by painting alarming pictures.
That's a very astute observation.
What I get guys that are coming back that are wounded or walking wounded or was stragglers,
they're telling, I could so bad.
Because they don't want to look bad.
He says it is risky and usually impossible to move reserves during darkness on every call
for help.
Units cannot be wholly destroyed in the night attack.
They must stick.
Launch your counterattack after daylight and subsequent to adequate reconnaissance and see
that it's coordinated.
That's a good one.
What that basically means is to me, when you defeat someone, you need to go in there and
finish it off 100%.
Condition by that means conditioning, by that means physical conditioning.
High physical condition is vital to victory.
There are more tired core and division commanders than there are tired core and divisions.
Fatigue makes powers of us all.
Man in condition do not tire.
The last one is courage, do not take counsel of your fears, which he seems to write that
all the time.
There's a good reason for it.
You're going to be afraid, don't listen to it, don't negotiate with it.
Signed who can a general US Army commanding.
So that was letter of instruction number one.
Now we're going to jump into this one came out a little bit later, letter of instruction
number two.
This letter stresses those tactical administrative uses which combat experience has taught
myself and the officers who have served under me to consider vital.
And it says you will not simply mimeograph this and call it a day.
You are responsible that these uses just become habitual in your command.
Even in war 1944, we're getting ready to invade France and fight the Nazis.
We're going to embark on the most on the largest attack assault ever in the history of the
world.
That's what we're doing.
And guess what, he's still saying, look, you can't just mimeograph this.
It called dates even men even with all that.
You got officers that are like, okay, boss put out some word here.
You can read it.
No.
This idea of hate just putting out the word, being enough.
This reflects what he said last time about 10%, 90%, 10%, 10% to give in the order.
90% is personally ensuring it gets done.
Taking ownership of it.
That's what he's talking about.
That is exactly what he's talking about.
Okay, so he starts to offer that.
Then he goes right into discipline, which as I said, he's a believer in the power of discipline.
So he says there's only one sort of discipline perfect.
I'm reading it kind of without much vigor because I've read it before.
He says it all the time.
I'm going to read it again with vigor because it deserves some.
There is only one sort of discipline perfect discipline.
Men cannot have good battle discipline and poor administrative discipline.
Oh, imagine that.
You can't just be all laks, kidesical, back behind in garrison doing the administrative
stuff and then expect you're going to have discipline when it's for combat related subjects.
You got to have it across the board.
Good.
Discipline is based on pride and the profession of arms on meticulous attention to details
and on mutual respect and confidence.
Discipline must be a habit, so ingrained that it is stronger than the excitement of battle
or the fear of death.
Shhh.
Have you ever seen the movie?
Soldier.
This could be a good one.
You're going to have to go watch this one.
Who's in now or what?
Which one is that?
The movie is called Soldier.
It stars a guy named.
It stars a famous guy.
And I can't think of his name right now.
But he was in tombstone.
And it's not.
He looks like Patrick Swazie.
Velkillmer?
No.
No, he's real famous.
He's really famous actor.
Well, so a tombstone that was Kurt Russell.
Yes, Kurt Russell.
Okay, so Kurt Russell's in this movie soldier.
You've got to watch this movie.
This movie is a really good movie.
Think about what I'm saying right now.
This movie is a really good, and it's not only surprising that I'm saying that because
it's like a sci-fi movie.
Yeah.
Okay.
It's a sci-fi movie.
It's pretty on the surface.
You got okay.
You can barely, it's a kind of movie you'd flip through in the video, stormy like
whatever another thing.
It looks just like any other cheesy movie.
It's a good movie.
Soldier.
At one point in the movie.
So he's this guy that's been fighting wars his whole life.
And they're being replaced by cybernetic soldiers.
And so he gets like sent to a space junkyard.
And on the space junkyard, there's people that kind of live there that have their own
little society.
And he shows up there.
And he starts trying to long story.
But at one point, this woman asks him,
because he just, he just is, he's just like a perfect soldier.
Right?
Two.
The one point is woman, she says something along the lines of, do you ever feel anything?
And he says, I don't even think he says yes sir.
He calls everyone sir, even the even females.
I think he says something along the lines of yes sir, fear and discipline.
Yes.
Sounds like you're kind of moving.
And the other cool thing about this movie, the movie has, I want to say the first half an hour.
There's no speaking.
There's no dialogue.
They're showing the kids being selected and trained.
So the kid that can't keep up with the run, they kill him.
This is like my dreams aside.
There you go.
So I'm going to go watch this tonight if I can't guess I will too.
You're going to love this movie.
Well yeah, I'm familiar with it actually.
So when you said the sci-fi, I was like, okay, I think I know what you're talking about.
The bad kind of kind of marginal, special effects and stuff.
Yeah, they need to remake that movie with me in it.
Hey, they have tattoos.
I think they have tattoos either on their armor, on their face.
Oh, they have their rank on their face.
But then they have tattoos of the, like the barcoters.
Yeah, they have a barcode, but then they have the tattoos of the campaigns in which they've
served.
Oh, no, he's looking at it.
So fear and discipline.
That's what life is as a soldier.
Okay, you're afraid, but guess what?
You have discipline, you overcome it.
And according to Paton, discipline must be a habit, so ingrained, that is stronger than
the excitement of battle or the fear of death.
And if you think about, just think about that word excitement, right?
That this is an only applied battle.
Think if you can have enough discipline that when there's stressful situations occurring
around you, you have the discipline to be able to take this step back in the touch and
set it getting wrapped up in it.
That's discipline.
Every day life, he continues on talking about discipline.
The history of our, of our invariably victorious armies demonstrates that we are the best
soldiers in the world.
This should make your men proud.
This should make you proud.
This should imbue your units with unconscribable self confidence and pride in demonstrated
ability.
discipline can only be obtained when all officers are so imbued with the sense of their
awful obligation to their men and to their country that they cannot tolerate negligence.
Officers who fail to correct errors or to praise excellence are valueless in peace and
dangerous misfits in war.
Boom.
So think about that.
Have you ever heard leadership described as an awful obligation?
That is the most exquisite choice of words that I've heard in the long time.
That's what it is, an awful obligation to the men and their country.
Use officers must assert themselves by example and by voice they must be preeminent, encourage
deportment and dress.
One of the primary purposes of discipline is to produce alertness, a man who is so
a phargic that he fails to salute will fall easy victim to an enemy.
Combat experience is proven that ceremonies such as formal guard mounts or formal retreat
formations and regular and supervised revelry formations are a great help and in some cases
essential to prepare men and officers for battle to give them that perfect discipline, the
smartness of appearance that alertness without which battles cannot be won.
So he's all into that.
All of his revelry formations.
Reveal his wake up when we had Joe Lohn from the French Foreign Legion, what they call
a pal, that's revely and wake up and get in line and retreat formal retreat formation.
A retreat formation is putting down the flag like as the end of the day, hey we're done
for the day.
Even when you're in Garrison you do that formally.
So by the way, none of this stuff you never do any of this stuff in the sealed teams.
Barely ever.
The only time we'll do is if something's gone on, you can punch a kick, guys get in trouble.
All of us on, they'll start saying, we're going to be there every morning and we're
going to be there every morning.
You know, I want you to miss fits.
Yeah, I want you miss fits.
So the revely formations, that's like an official wake up performance.
Hey, wake up a six, we're meeting at 630, that's happened every day.
And then the end of the day, here's what we're doing.
You know, we're assembling again, we're putting out final word and then you can go and
have dinner or whatever.
Huh, okay.
So just really highly disciplined formalities, even when you just waking up, that's a procedure.
We're keeping it real across the board.
Continuing on in the third army when troops are not in the actual combat zone, nor engaged
in tactical exercises or range firing, core and separate divisions.
Separate division commanders will see, hey, that regular revely formations be held in
attendance at which there will be a minimum of one officer per company or similar unit.
And in addition, when practicable, a minimum of one field officer per regiment or separate
battalion, B, then it shall be customary for all organizations to hold formal retreat under
arms, attendance in addition to the prescribed and listed men shall be all officers of
company grade.
In the case of regiments and separate battalions of minimum of one field officer, B, that
in the case where music is available and it is practicable from a building standpoint,
frequent regimental and battalion retreat parades and similar ceremonies will be held.
Again, this is stuff that in the Seal teams, this never happens.
I mean, it happens like when someone retires, or when there's a funeral, like it does
not happen where you could go, you could go, you could go years with
that ever putting on a dress uniform.
You could go years, so just kind of saying that unit and organizational guards shall be
performed strictly within accordance to FM 26, 5 when music is available, formal guard mounts
will be held frequently.
E that officers in formation where uniform, a nagleist to that worn by the enlisted men and
that all officers participate in all drills and marches at all times with their organizations
or units.
This includes marching, two and from training areas and ranges.
So that's the end of that list.
So you can say, he ain't playing around.
Back year going to be highly disciplined part of this situation here.
So in life, you know, because there's like format, you know, like dinner time for example,
that's like another.
I mean, that's not another by like a, well, I think that's not a life format.
Formality can hate.
Hey, fam, dinner time wash hands every day.
Six o'clock, 55 wash hands, six o'clock at the table.
You own before dinner.
Be home before dinner, all those things.
There's like things that you could put your life or, you know, wake up when your
alarm clock goes off, get your workout.
Like there's things you do every day, right?
Brush your teeth, flush your teeth, stupid, right?
Until you got your teeth falling out until you got dental problems.
Dental.
There he is.
Bed time to your, well, the dinner time is a big one because it's like everyone does it.
There's a procedure that's in place.
Hey, wash hands.
Sometimes they have one kid set the table or whatever, maybe two kids, whatever.
Then you can't just roll out.
You gotta what?
My bad.
You excuse.
And then it's like, okay, then, you know, then clean up time or whatever.
However, you handle that this different ways or whatever.
And then you're sort of done, you know, and it's everybody's a part of that.
Yeah, that's what, that's a little minor example of this.
Yeah.
And I think it's a good time to it, yeah.
Thanks.
Continue's on here.
Officers are always on duty.
And their duty extends to every individual junior to themselves in the US Army, not only
to members of the localization, that's awesome.
And this, you want to talk about, like, this is a good way to think about life as a human
big, right?
Like your duty extends to every human.
But I'm here to help other people.
Not just people that I know, but everybody.
Next Americans with arms in their hands are fools as well as cowards to surrender.
If they fight on, they will conquer.
He says this, cases of misbehavior before the enemy will be brought to before general
court martial and tried under the 75th article of war.
It has been my experience that many court marshals are prone to view this most heinous
offense for which the punishment of death may be inflicted in two lenient a manner.
They should realize that the lives of troops are saved by punishment of initial offenders.
Cowardous is a disease and it must be checked before it becomes an epidemic.
That sounds super hard, court.
I'm going to tell you a quick story.
I was, I don't even, were you?
No, it was Andy and I were training the other day and we were training on the, like
the Jockel map, right?
So we're training on the Jockel map and actually as we showed up, someone else was showing
up the train too and it was two adult males.
They had 14 year old kid with them estimated age.
And you know, I know the dad's a little bit, you know, I was, hey, what's going on?
I bring my friend, oh, they have their son, or he's got his son here, he trained a little
bit here there.
I'm like, okay, we see.
He's not sure about getting back into, I guess he's probably trained when he was, let's
say eight, right?
So it's been a few years.
And the kid, so the kid, so, and he, I look over the balcony thing and I see the kid
I goes at him and he's like, yeah, he's allowed in.
I go, yeah, I go, hey, send that kid up here so the kid comes up.
And I'm just like hanging out, having fun, whatever.
So then the kid shows up and getting warmed up with Andy and we'll take, you know,
five minutes, warm up round and I say the kid, I'm like, oh, hey, you know, you trained
before?
And he says, yeah, I trained a little bit and I was like, okay, cool, you know, that's awesome.
And then I do a couple rounds with Andy and then I say, and the meanwhile, the two dads
are training with G.
By the way, this is a long story.
I'm sorry, to, I'll make it as soon as possible.
Eventually, I say to the kid, hey, are you going to train?
And he goes, well, I'm not sure I'm allowed to.
And I said, no, no, actually, I own the gym.
So that means you can go, yeah, I'm telling you right now, you can go training, so come
out on the map.
Because I'm thinking there's a kid here that could change his life and have a better life
and they say, oh, world won't prove if he trains to jitter.
He's in the gym, bro.
I mean, this is like a low hanging fruit.
Let's get this kid in the game.
So then he says, I don't have a geek.
The other, the dad, not his dad, the other guy, the friend of his dad was like, I have one
for you.
And I go, go get it.
So then he runs out, goes get the geek in the car.
The kid kind of puts the g on, comes out of the map.
You can see the kids not, not really 100% down with this whole thing, right?
For whatever reason, right?
Maybe it's because it's weird to be with your dad and his old man friend, right?
Like sure.
I'm a 14 year old kid when we hang out with these old guys, don't we?
This weird thing is, here's the apex of the story that I've been trying to get to.
Eventually, the kids on the map, he's in his key.
I'm training with Andy, we're on a break during rounds.
And I hear the kid, it's a veteran of break, too, because they're doing 500 rounds, but it's
just the two dads.
And I hear them trying to convince the kid to get around with his dad was the beginner.
The other guy is maybe high level white belt, maybe like Boobell type level.
So he's kind of showing them what to do.
And they're kind of trying to convince the kid, but the kid's kind of like, well, you know,
and so I look over there and I go, hey, you get on him right now, you're doing the next
round and the kid just goes and starts the round.
Get on, get on, I go ahead.
You're in.
I go, you go against him now.
And the kid like, just obeyed, right?
My point in saying this whole thing is like sometimes that kind of leadership is required.
Because all you're trying to do is push the kid in the right direction, push the
soldier in the right direction, push the employee in the right direction.
Hey, get up there on that thing.
Hey, just make that phone call.
Hey, just go confront that guy.
You know, like sometimes people need a little push.
That's all this kid needed was just a little push.
And they wasn't looking at me like going to say, no, I don't want to.
And if you would, you know, who knows, I would have dealt with the scenario, hopefully,
I will be said would have tried to.
But sometimes people just need a little push.
So this idea and that's the whole opening speech from Patton.
Say what you want about it.
Here's the standard Americans love winners.
Americans hate cowards.
Like that's a, that's a game mentality that you can start.
You can start it in a company, you can start a business.
We don't, you know, we don't settle down.
We don't settle for that.
You know, like whatever it's going to be, you call that out.
And that becomes a part of your culture, right?
So sometimes when he's talking about this cowardice thing, I mean, you hear it all the
time, right?
You hear it, well, you hear it in an organization.
You know, you let a little bit of slack.
A little bit of slack here.
That's why when hack worth makes the call of, you know, you say to the, the, the, the
enlisted guy say to the officer hardcore recondo, the officer say back, no fucking slack.
That starts to become the mentality, even though, and hack worth even says it in the beginning,
people are like, oh, who's this gung-hung, Mr. gung-hung.
It's like, no, that starts to become the standard.
You have to start somewhere.
So these are methods of leadership.
The pro, can people go overboard to stuff?
Of course they can.
Totally.
That's why there's a lot of leadership that has to be balanced.
And there's so many times where Patton, again, kind of like we'd see with Chestie Polar,
like Chestie Polar, this big, you know, bombastic figure of courage and bravery and being
super hardcore, hard-nosed.
You know, when you read that book about him, man, he loved though.
He loved this guy's.
Hail, man.
You might not want to do that.
Remember that, like, where was the way he would talk to his guys?
Yeah.
And yet he was super hardcore Patton same thing.
So he's saying, look, when you get cowardice, yes, you, you, you nip it in the butt.
Get someone acting up, you go, hey, we don't act like that.
It's on because, oh, good.
Next section is tactical, you suggest, these are good combat principles.
There is no approved solution to any tactical situation, boom.
There is no approved solution to any tactical situation.
There is only one tactical principle, which is not subject to change.
It is to so use the means at hand to inflict the maximum amount of wounds, death and destruction
on the enemy in the minimum amount of time.
That's what doesn't change.
To so use the means at hand to inflict the maximum amount of wounds, death and destruction
on the enemy in the minimum amount of time.
That's not going to change.
We're holding fast bat one.
Next in battle casualties vary directly with the time you were exposed to effective
fire.
Your own fire reduces the effectiveness and volume of the enemy fire while rapidity of
attack shortens the time of exposure.
A pint of sweat will save a gallon of blood.
That's cover move by the way.
Obviously, we're going to put down fire while we move.
That's cover move.
Battles are won by fighting the enemy.
Fear is induced by inflicting death and wounds on him.
Death and wounds are produced by fire.
Fire from the rear is more deadly and three times more effective from fire than fire from
the front.
To get fire behind the enemy, you must hold him by frontal fire and move rapidly around
his flank.
Frontal attacks against prepared positions should be avoided as possible.
Cover move and don't attack directly using direct attacks.
Thank you.
Thank you, General Patton.
Catch the enemy by the nose with fire and kick him in the pants with fire in place
through movement.
Cover move.
Hit hard soon.
That is with two battalions up in a regiment or two divisions up in a corps or two corps
up in an army.
The idea being to develop your maximum force at once before the enemy can develop
his as part of which I was next to you by the way.
Focus your attacks.
You can never be too strong.
Get every man and every gun you can secure provided it does not unduly delay your attack.
The German is a champion digger.
The larger the force and the more violence you use in your attack, whether it be men, tanks,
ammunition, the smaller your proportional losses.
This is a tough one.
This is the one that you, you can get caught thinking that, oh, what going to do this
big attack that there's going to be casualties.
It's like there's going to be less casualties if you do it with the biggest at force
you can and the most of violence you can possibly do your attack with.
Never yield ground.
It is cheaper to hold what you have than retake what you have lost.
Never move troops to the rear for arrest or to reform at night and in the daytime
only were absolutely necessary.
Such moves may produce a panic.
There's tactical rules in particular subjects.
Use roads to march on fields to fight and troops should not deploy until they're forced
by the enemy fire.
When you are advancing in broken country against possible tank attacks and using leap
and using leap frog method be sure to keep the anti guns up as well.
leap frog, what you know that is?
It's for the men.
I know what the game leap frog is.
Yes, but it's also cover move.
Because I hold position you leap forward once you get there you hold position meaning
you either fire or you prepare to fire if you have to and then I move.
So it's called a leap frog.
In mountain country secure the heights.
Enforcing a past secure the heights first.
This is an interesting one.
The effects of mines is largely mental.
On over 10% of our casualties come from them.
Interesting about that is it's lower to the mental because you have fear of this thing
that you can't see but he's saying not 10% of our casualties come from them but for my generation
it's like 70% of casualties are from IEDs.
So a little different than just mental.
Never permitted unit to dig in until the final objective is reached then dig in wire and
mine.
Take plenty of time to set up an attack.
Takes at least this is here's why I put it.
It takes at least two hours to prepare an infantry battalion to execute a properly coordinated
attack.
Shoveing them into soon produces useless.
What's funny about this is nowadays we will take two weeks to prepare for an attack.
So he's saying look hey you need two hours.
The thing is he's right.
If everybody knows their jobs you put together a simple clear plan that's flexible you
don't need all this time.
In battle small forces, platoon companies and even battions can do one of three things
go forward, halt or run.
Think about life.
Think about what you can do in life. You can go forward, halt or run.
What else is there?
Go forward, halt or run.
He continues.
If they halt or run they will be an even easier target.
Therefore they must go forward.
When caught under fire particularly of artillery advanced out of it never retreat from it.
Artillery very seldom shortens its range.
So think about that how often are we in a position where we can go forward we can halt
or we can run.
What do you say is you're getting attacked instead of going backwards go forwards.
General training.
Again skipping a bunch of sections but general training more emphasis will be placed on
the hardening of men and officers.
This soldiers and officers should be able to run a mile with combat, pack and ten minutes
and march eight miles and two hours.
When soldiers are an actual contact with the enemy it is almost impossible to maintain
physical condition.
But if the physical condition is right before they gain contact it will not fall off sufficiently
during contact to be detrimental.
Hardening of men and officers.
That's just that's what we're doing.
Just hardening.
Doesn't some very comfortable by the way.
It is not meant to be.
Our ability to fight at night as opposed to moving to position at night for a dawn attack
is pitably bad.
We must learn to execute the attack in the dark.
This might be one of my favorites.
Sharpening axes, pick axes and shovels now and keep them sharp.
Just think about that.
Sharpening your shovels.
I've never sharpened a shovel in my life.
I'm going to go home today and sharpen my shovels.
You know what I was saying?
Sharpening your shovels.
That's a mindset.
Never mind sharpen your sword.
Look, your sword better be sharp.
I'm going to sharpen my damn shovel.
In the event of.
Get ready, be ready.
Stay ready.
I might have to hit you in the head with a pick axe and I want to go clean.
And through.
Or dig a hole real quick.
Or dig a hole either way.
I'm going to be ready.
Yeah.
Battles are fought by Patuens and squads.
Place empson on small unit combat instructions so that it's conducted with the same
precision as close order drill.
A good solution applied with vigor now is better than a perfect solution ten minutes
later.
Instruction from the squad to the regiment's sand table should be used and the officer
or non-combing instructed should give the actual orders he will give in common.
Sandtables need not be complicated a piece of ground in the leave of a building is just
good and much simpler.
I used to have this little kit I learned this from one of the Australian SAS guys that
was stationed with us over at Sulteen one.
Perfectly doing.
And as you know, it's a Cretz box is.
Suit Cretz.
Cretz I think it's called breathments.
Yeah.
It's like a little tin box.
Yeah. So in this little tin box, you could open it up and I had little little like
little wood, little wood things, little wood placards and they had each little wood placard
was shaped kind of like a tear drop.
Okay.
So it's a picture of tear drop and then on the tear drop it said PT was the first one.
And the next one said PL the next one said RTO.
So this point man, puttoon leader, radio man.
And so I had one of these little tear drops for each guy in the puttoon.
And then I had like a few pieces of ribbon in there.
And the ribbon is used to go, oh here's a road, here's a stream.
Okay.
Here's a fence.
So what you could do is you could sit down in a perimeter and you could make a little
sand table.
What's what a sand table is.
That's what you talk about.
It's like a little diagram of what's happening.
So I had a couple like a little tiny house like a monopoly.
Like a monopoly house.
So you could do like a building here and there's a building here where to move in here.
That's what I had.
And so you'd be able to break this thing out.
You'd see like a real pro.
So the little, well, so we don't even know what a placard technically is.
But you described it pretty good.
It's just a small tear drop representative of the person.
The reason you have a tear drop, there's not a tear drop is because then whatever
point, the tear, the thing was pointing out.
That's the way weapons was face.
Okay.
Yeah.
Good.
Bang in the monopoly house is.
Wait, was it a house or a condo?
Because it's different.
The house is a little green when the condo is a big red one.
Green looks a little bit more tactical.
And those were only because you couldn't actually show what you could show how you're
going to set.
That would be like the target.
So now we see how we're going to set up like targets here.
Boom.
You guys are going here.
Here's what we're going to maneuver.
And then because it's way, but it's just nice.
Imagine you're in the field.
And you got to draw in the dirt.
But you're finding rocks.
And you're like, no, this is you, RTO.
And he's like, which one is me?
Right.
All those problems are solved.
Yeah.
You got the secret box.
Show them what's up.
Yeah, man.
It's good.
Yeah, they do that on a line of movies.
For sure.
What?
The secret box?
No, not this particular one.
But it's created diagram of the plan.
And it's like a rock.
Sometimes a rock depends on the movie.
Obviously.
Like, I'm back to the future.
Yeah.
Brown, whatever.
He made the, this, he's like, please excuse the crew to mock up.
You know, I didn't have the time to get to scale in the team.
In the body.
We would go to like these briefings, battalion brief, briefings or brigade briefings.
They would have that massive sand tables.
You'd walk around on them.
Oh, okay.
Like all the roads were laid out.
You know, the road would be four inches wide.
Six inches wide.
And all the buildings built out of blocks.
Yeah.
I'll just two by four.
So he's some pride.
Some pride.
And some pride.
There's, because all that up two by four is glued together.
Ten a good little time.
But you get the thing is once again, in comparison to the thing that you just look out
on the power point, you start walking around that visual, actual model.
You get a better understanding of it.
Yeah.
So get yourself a little scrap box.
All to it.
It's like all to it's probably.
Probably.
Maybe I can make one.
And like show it to people.
I don't think I could find.
I used to have.
I can't find it anymore.
What?
The secret?
No.
The whole little kit that I used to have.
I might be able to find it.
You made that kit.
No.
Made it.
Maybe I need to make one that I could offer to people.
Sure.
Right.
I'm sure these people everywhere that are waiting.
They need to.
Sure.
Just randomly have or what?
Like.
Shoot.
All right.
Yeah.
I think that's the DIY situation.
I think they sell for not going to make them.
Decisions been made.
Yeah.
Kind of want to go.
It is cool.
Because that's kind of stuff you do when you're.
Like a little kid.
Let's face it.
That's what's awesome about being in the seal teams or in the military is like all the things that you did when you were a little kid.
You're actually doing for real and it's the best.
Yeah.
It's like real.
I'm like, oh, I'm really doing this.
Yeah.
I really did that.
Real mission.
You know, I really.
Like I really sat and briefed my guys on like killing people.
You know, it's you sit there and you think back.
Well, that's what I was doing.
Yeah.
I did that.
I gave that brief.
You know, it's like it's.
It's.
So lucky to be in.
To be in the situation.
Where you get to grow up and do what you wanted to do.
I didn't even grow up.
Yeah.
All right.
Guides.
Oh, officers and men must know their equipment.
They must train with the equipment.
They intend to use in battle equipment must be the best operational condition when taken in the theater of romp.
They've been theater romp operations.
Yeah.
You have to use what you're going to use.
You have to.
Guides for officers officers must possess self confidence and confidence of their men and the confidence of their men.
Two of the best ways of producing this is meticulously conducted close order drill conducted by officers and platoon marches of 48 to 60 hours during which the platoon is wholly on its own.
Check.
In the first actions, new troops must receive aggressive leadership by all grades, including general officers who must be seen in the front in the front line during action.
There is a universal failure to repeat back oral orders.
This failure is certain to result in grave errors.
Messages and orders must use concise military verbiage.
So, the second time he's hit on is make sure you start to think doesn't it?
Maybe he's onto something.
When you tell somebody to do something, have them tell it back to you.
Make it simple clear and concise.
Prisoners, German prisoners over 40 talk morties leave in the younger ones.
They must be examined separately and not returned to cages where the young ones are.
Prisoners and other Germans usually talk, well prisoners other than Germans usually talk freely and inaccurately.
They too should be examined out of hearing and later separated from the young Nazis.
Yeah, you can imagine.
I mean, just like we read in unit, it's not unit 731.
Or an airy man in a police pet time, but the older Nazis like they don't convince.
You can imagine when you capture them, then I gotta tell you what's going on.
You capture a young militant, you know, 15 year old Nazi Hitler youth.
He's not gonna say anything to you.
He's gonna say blood and honor, that's it.
There is a tendency for the Cheney Command to overload junior.
There is a tendency for the Cheney Command to overload junior officers with excessive requirements in the way of training and reports.
You will alleviate this burden by eliminating non-essential demands.
Boom, there you go.
Everybody should listen to that.
Part of it, you know how you get in situations where your basic attitude is it?
Well, it sucked for me. I had to go through it. Now I'm gonna make you go through it too.
Yeah, that's what I think some of this is because that's because people lose memory of what it was like.
And so they start, they just carry on a tradition.
Some of it's like, oh, I had to do those reports when I was new guy.
Now you're gonna do them too.
Yeah, I wonder, what do you think about that?
We're okay, I'm not kidding.
It's kind of too parts. There's the part where it's like, okay, there's some valuable things that a new guy has to go through.
That seem like a hazing or a wobble box.
But it actually serves the actual process.
Right?
And then there's that additional, like, oh, that's the tradition.
As a new guy, you gotta, I don't know, pay your dues for like a better turn.
Do you think there's value in that for like, there's some value.
There is definitely some value.
And also, you know, when, and late, when I talk about this all the time, when we got told to do paperwork and
late, and Seth didn't want to do paperwork, and they're like, do you jocco, can you put a stop and just
something like, no, actually, we're going to do the paperwork.
That doesn't mean that I said, oh, I like doing the paperwork, and I think it's beneficial.
No, I was trying to build a relationship with my boss.
As often as I could, especially overseas, I tried to eliminate as much paperwork as possible.
Well, it was no way successful, but I tried.
Yeah, and there is, and you, when I went to Officer Canada at school, there was all kinds of things that
seemed really dumb when you're there, especially I went there and I had been in the
Navy for eight years, so I kind of understood what was happening.
But those people that had just been in the Navy for 10 weeks when the drone structure finally
said, hey, this is, this is why we do this to you and everything kind of makes sense.
So there's definitely something, you know, not looking at your meal while you're reading it.
Right?
What does that do?
Develops your peripheral vision.
Yelling everything that you say, what does that do?
It allows you to speak with more confidence.
Yeah.
It makes you learn how to think before you speak.
Think about every time you talk, you have to yell at the top of your lungs.
That's what you have to do at Officer Canada's goal.
Every single time you talk, the entire time you're there, you have to yell at the top of your lungs.
So anyone that's shy is going to get over it.
Anyway, that's like an uncomfortable height of either professor when I went to college.
And when she spoke, she covered her mouth.
Yeah.
Every time she spoke, she covered her mouth.
Because she just didn't want to talk.
And she was a professor.
You know?
So she needs to go to OCS and yell at the top of her lungs for 13 weeks.
She didn't walk out of there going hand away from mouth talking confidently to each of the
glass.
Yeah.
Let's do it.
That's, I assume that's pretty common.
I don't like the yell.
You know, when they're like, hey, like actually yell in whatever.
Yeah.
I don't really like to do it.
I, I, I, I, I get you a billet of OCS 13 weeks of yelling.
Yeah.
Maybe get that voice adjusted a little bit.
Check.
Uh, section here on infantry.
Infantry must move in order to close with the enemy.
It must shoot in order to move covered move.
I need to make this stuff up, man.
It's so interesting when people, you know,
they say, uh, say, oh, I don't know about that.
Techno covered move is a real thing.
It's undeniable.
Yeah.
Undeniable.
Um, when physical targets are not visible, the fire of all infantry weapons must search the area.
Probably occupied by the enemy.
I remember when I learned that for the first time.
I remember I, I think was actually, I think it might have been Roger Hayden.
That was like, no, shoot where you think the enemy would be.
And I was like, oh, because if you think where they could be, I mean, when you're getting fired at from a certain area,
you look to that area.
You can't tell exactly where the enemy is.
So you shoot in the five most likely places that you see there.
And everyone else in your platoon or task unit is doing the same thing.
You're going to be shooting at the bad guys like somewhere.
Um, it reduces and when you're doing that, it reduces the accuracy of his fire and increases our confidence.
Shoot short.
This is another thing we learned all the time.
Ricochet make nastier sounds and wounds.
Do you understand that?
So when you're shooting at a bad guy, shoot low.
Yeah.
Who's that?
Someone who's saying that.
That's a brother he did.
We all see as prior, right?
Yeah.
Walking it in with a machine gun.
The ricochets are fine.
What ricochets?
That means the bullets tumbling when it hits you.
It's a nightmare.
Yeah.
And he's done.
And if you shoot high, anything else right?
That's right.
So shoot short ricochets make nastier sounds and wounds.
To halt under fire is folly.
To halt under fire and not fire back is suicide.
Move forward out of fire.
Officers must set the example.
Next, well, skip a few sections here.
Few men are killed by the bayonet.
Many are scared of it.
Bayonet should be fixed when the fire fight starts.
Bayonet's must be sharpened by the individual soldier.
The German hates the bayonet.
And is inferior to our men with it.
Our men should know this.
That is psychological warfare.
Like what he's actually doing sure.
He's saying that you have to sharpen your own bayonet.
Think about the psychological beauty of that scenario.
Yep.
And then you think the German hate.
Just pat know the German individual soldier.
He doesn't know that.
But you know what?
I'm going to tell my freaking entire third army that the German hates the bayonet.
They're scared of it.
It makes sense.
And we're better at it than they are.
And even starts this whole thing if you people don't even kill the bayonet.
But it doesn't matter.
Scared of it.
Sharpen it.
We're better than that with the bayonet.
It will, it makes sense.
Like if you see,
You don't pick, but let's say like a guy.
Some crazy guy.
Your enemy.
He's mad. He wants to kill you.
And he has a gun.
You're like, okay, he has a gun.
We all have guns.
All good.
But if the guy has a psychotic blade on the front of his gun
and he's like sharpening it himself.
He's like, bro, I'm not going near that guy, but he's like that knife makes him seem crazy.
There is something very zen and beautiful about sharpening your knife too.
Yeah.
Like it's a, it's a sole cleansing task.
Sharpening your knives.
And you know, now I'm adding to that sharpening your shovel.
Good.
Good idea.
Next, the M1 rifle is the most deadly rifle in the world.
If you can not see the enemy, you can at least shoot at the place where he's apt to be same message there.
You've got something in here.
I might not have outlined it.
But just he basically, you know, these things that he's saying he knows that he's saying them for the psychological boost for his troops.
He says here, the defense will consist of mutually supporting small groups
arranged in depth and completely wired in.
He didn't say overlapping fields of fire, but he should have minds when we place talks about artillery talks about armor talks about recon talks about anti aircraft and anti tanks and look all those things are brilliant and I'm not
breezing through them because I don't love artillery and I don't love armor anybody that knows anything about me knows that I love armor and artillery.
But he, these, the sections in this are very, very tactical.
He talks about maintenance weapons will be kept in perfect order.
Preventative maintenance will be enforced, particular attention should be given to tire pressure, lubrication, battery voltage and water in radiators.
Vehicles will be serviced and made operational before their crews rest.
Vehicles will be marked in accordance with paragraph 6, tax 14, AR, 850, tax 5.
We were, we did a long, long mission like a whole cycle of darkness, my first opponent.
And we got back to base and everyone was beat in my leading pedi officer.
Wasn't he was the lead now and the lead now guys kind of guy that directs the convoy.
And we drove, we got back to the gate and back down on our base at Baghdad.
He's like he comes up on the radio and he's like, hey boss can we just take the vehicles back and refuel you know later.
And I let it sit right there like that.
I didn't say anything.
And then I finally go negative take it to the fuel be Poe and he's like Roger.
He already knew that. He already knew the answer. He was like Roger.
And I let everybody, I let everybody because we're exhausted man.
It's been and it was freezing cold. It was freezing cold.
It was raining.
So it's raining like so the and this is before we we had doors.
We didn't have doors on our home vise.
So it's probably.
Uh 35 or 40 degrees because there was a little bit of sleep happening.
So it was right around the freezing mark and we did probably a.
Four hour drive.
To get to the target area. The target was outside.
It took us a few hours to get this whole thing settled.
We ended up with a giant.
We ended up having to move around a giant cash of weapons that we captured.
Outside in the rain, Bob I'm blowing and we get in the vehicles and so you're in the vehicles.
It's 35 to 40 degrees. It's raining and you got a 50 mile an hour wind the entire time because there's
Door to door to door to door. So everyone's freezing when we get back the sun's coming up.
So it's been an entire cycle of darkness.
I don't know how many hours but something like no there's no sleep.
Yeah and LPO comes over the radio.
A boss can we just take it back to a camp and fuel a vehicles letter.
And I'm like.
Negative.
Let's take it.
We feel people.
Wait, where was this?
Back there.
Dang it gets that cold, huh?
Yeah.
Middle little winter.
Cold.
Especially with that 60 mile an hour wind.
Uh, so there you go.
That's the deal.
You take care of that team gear.
Makes sense.
Because I guarantee you that one time you decide you're going to not fuel up the vehicles.
That's the time you're going to call down on QRF and we would get called out on QRF's pretty regularly.
Not not all the time but I mean it was no.
It was a high it was a decent percentage.
Not a high percentage.
But there's a decent percentage that we get to call them and say, hey, we need QRF out here.
We need QRF over there.
We need that cool.
Let's cool.
You need quick reaction force meaning troops are in trouble.
Hold on while we refuel our vehicles.
No.
We're never going to do that.
And that's not to mention the precedent right where you know, and this goes for anything.
Whatever.
I know it's very prevalent with kids where, you know, they, they want to push up against the rule.
Not in some, you know, hostile way or whatever.
Just sort of like, there's a tendency.
Yeah, like, you know, like, I don't know.
No dessert during the week or something like this.
And then it's like a week night.
Can we have?
Come on.
We've been, you know, we've been.
No.
Not happening.
We're not doing it.
Yeah, you can dessert that one day.
It's kind of like, oh, they know like, oh, sure that's the rule, but underserved emotional circumstances.
We can get away with the cool thing.
I mean, and, you know, hey, you know what?
LPO is looking out for the boys, which is part of the job, right?
There's part of there's a push pole, right?
There's always that push pole.
He's looking out for the boys.
He knows their time.
Hey, look, even if we got called for QRF, we're not super effective because we've been up for
20, 30 hours, right?
Yeah.
So we're not super effective.
He's probably thinking about that, too.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's actually a good point.
He would technically have like a little argument.
Yeah, it's an argument.
You know, it's like, hey, we're like less effective in less important.
It has patterns said.
So hey, man.
So yeah, makes sense.
But we had to hold the line on that one.
Yeah, that makes sense.
The QRF situation makes sense.
Yeah, QRF situation is important.
Well, you'd rather the guys be a little bit more tired than the
vehicles be on empty.
There was a good moment of silence on that one.
The other good moment of silence.
We got, this is again, my first deployment to Iraq.
And we got ambushed in a convoy.
And pretty tip-galls in the number two vehicle, pretty typical that the enemy wouldn't realize
where we were because we would drive really fast, blacked out.
They wouldn't realize until towards the end of the convoy.
And so in this particular one, we got ambushed.
And it was mostly centered on the back vehicles, right?
But I was looking, you know, as I'm looking at my field of fire, you know, I can see all kinds of
tracers going by.
I can see.
And then they fired a couple RPGs that went over our convoy and exploded on my side of the road,
because they ambushed us from the other side.
So this big ambush happens and, you know, the call comes out,
which actually the calls made by the same guy that was asking the question earlier,
is the LPO who's leading off.
And, you know, he just pushed through a push,
which is totally normal.
So we did it.
And then we just keep going, right?
And I don't say anything.
And then my,
Patoon Chief, again, both my LPO and Patoon Chief also got a good time,
but he comes up in the radio.
And you can hear it his voice is a little bit spun up, you know?
And he's like, he's like, he's like,
hey, Choco, you heard who got ambushed back here?
And I just like, log moment of silence,
as I said, Roger.
That was it.
We did what we had to do, but those were funny moments of silence that happened from time to time.
Because everyone's kind of, because in my cartoons, in my task,
no talking on the radio was so limited, like no,
basically no one talked on the radio, you know?
Unless you had something really important to say.
And so when there was something on the radio,
everyone was 100% listening to.
And when someone is asking me a question,
everyone was a 1000% listening to what my response is going to be,
especially when it's like, hey, we might get some more sleep,
or hey, we just got ambushed, does Choco know?
It's like, both those people are going, what do we going to do?
Because there's a possibility, it's like, hey,
all stop, we're going to turn around and go and hunt down these people that I am bush to us,
which is not a good idea, and we didn't do it.
But you know, everyone's thinking maybe I'm going to say that,
or maybe I'm just saying whatever,
but everyone's listening to what my response is going to be,
a little moment of silence, dramatic effect, possibly, possibly.
Or I'm just actually, here's what's actually happening.
I'm sitting or considering this situation, you know?
Okay.
Is everyone okay?
They must be, or we can casually report,
or hey, maybe we should go and to sleep before we,
I'm thinking through the actual situation.
I'm not just, you know, trying to be a jerk,
trying to be cool, trying to be cool.
I'm actually thinking, okay.
I know we got ambushed.
I'm waiting for, is there's casualty?
I think, you know, I might as well say something like,
are we up?
Or no, the push through call comes, everyone calls,
calls vehicles up, from there, six is up, five is up, four is up,
three is up, so already know everyone's good.
We're already good.
Check.
All right.
This last section is called,
care of men,
which once again, you know,
you look at the, you look at the,
uh, leadership strategy and tactics manual,
and some of the most important things that I try to make,
as clear as possible, is that you got to,
you got to, you got to care about your men,
you got to care about your people.
That's what you got to do.
To a moochyama taught me.
I mean, I wouldn't say moochyama taught me that,
but when he said it,
I was like, that's the underpinning of everything, you know?
This thing that's been a,
a tenant of my leadership principles.
A, let's call it an,
let's call it a,
a sort of a,
a, a,
flying below the radar,
tenant, you know,
like, yeah, you got to take care of your people.
Yeah, totally get that.
But when I had moochyama,
general moochyama talk about it,
and we talked about hack worth and just,
I was like, oh, yeah.
It's not just,
it's not just under the radar.
It's the real thing.
So hence general patent,
it's got an entire section called care of men.
Officers are responsible not only for the conduct of their men in battle,
but also for their health and contentment when not fighting.
And officer must be the last man to take shelter from fire
and first to move forward.
Similarly, he must be the last man to look after his own comfort
at the close of a march.
He must see that his men are cared for.
The officer must constantly interest himself
in the rations of men.
He should know his men so well that any sign of sickness or nervous strain
will be apparent to him and he can teach such action as maybe necessary.
Again, why is he talking about this?
This is patent.
This is a known, they show the movie,
the big scene where he slaps around the guy is a coward and all that stuff.
Get that guy out of this ward.
He had this reputation.
That he's like abusive.
Freaking care about your men.
And think about what he's saying here.
Like the last guy to move for cover.
The last guy to take care of himself after a march.
The rations go to the men first.
Everything is about the troops.
That's what a leader is.
Continuing to look after his men's feet.
See that they have properly fitting shoes and good condition
at that their socks fit loose or tight socks make sore feet.
He must anticipate change of weather and see that proper clothing
and foot gear is asked for and obtained.
So that's what that's the last thing that he talks about
is caring for your men.
The successful soldier wins battles cheaply so far as his own casualties are concerned.
But he must remember that violent attacks,
although costly at the time save lives in the end.
So yes, that wants to say message he's been giving.
Violence, although it seems like it's going to increase casualties
if you attack violently it will save lives in the end.
And that right there is the best way that you can care for your people.
Have them ready, have them trained, have them disciplined.
And then go on the attack.
And this thing is signed, G.S. Patent Jr.
Lieutenant General, U.S. Army, commanding.
So awesome information from Patent once again.
I've got some more and we may have been roll right into.
I've got some more Patent stuff to talk about.
Because there's some things that people freak out about.
And we can't really get a plan.
Let's face it.
That's not really my style.
Flamboyance, not really my thing.
So he's got some things that we are going to need to talk about.
There we will.
Perhaps we'll do it next time.
But eventually we'll get to it.
So Patent, don't throw the baby out with the bath water.
If you don't like that, those parts of him because believe me,
his flamboyant is this guy was.
He's got a lot of people.
And we can all learn a lot.
We can also talk about the fact that he sometimes didn't play the game.
And he didn't get the positions.
He wanted to probably oftentimes because he didn't play the game.
So we can talk about all that stuff.
For now, we're going to hold what we got.
Just did some live gigs.
And I've done DC, New York, Austin, LA.
Everything sold out.
Seattle and San Francisco are still coming, but they're both already sold out.
But anyways, it's been awesome.
It's been an incredible experience.
And meeting everyone.
And I can't, this isn't to ask you to come because they're already done.
But I just wanted to say to everyone that came out to them.
Thank you for coming to them.
They were incredible to be a part of.
So, and I will schedule some more of them.
And maybe echo will come.
Oh, no.
Maybe.
Are you going to come to Seattle?
San Francisco.
Okay.
Cool.
Sold out.
So if someone was just kind of waiting to hear if you were going to be there, you'd be late.
Awesome.
You know, with that.
Echo drones, we are trying to be, you know, we're taking advice from general pat and we're trying to be more disciplined.
We're trying to be more courageous in.
We're trying to be physically hardened.
We're trying to be better.
What do you know of that can perhaps help us in all those arenas.
Echoes.
Aside from sharpening our shovels, can we're going to do you just train today?
You didn't.
I did.
You were preoccupied.
Doing various things.
I was actually preparing for this podcast, which is what I have to do.
Yeah.
Well, I prepared for this.
No, no, no.
Press record.
Which is great.
It's more of a mental preparation.
But, you know, nonetheless.
I feel good about that.
How did you feel?
Did you get beyond us?
Were you like my goal was, I did not make my goal.
My goal was to be prepped by noon.
Coming here, train shower record.
That's that was the plan.
I did not accomplish my mission.
So I had to prioritize next.
We owe this podcast to our people.
We will not prioritize my personal agenda of training.
Above taking care of the troops.
The troops expected podcast.
On Wednesday.
Tuesday night, even.
We must deliver.
That means I have work to do.
I know it doesn't mean anything to you.
I know it doesn't even feel with any part of your personal life.
Any part of your personal time.
But I have work to do.
It does.
It's just more psychological.
Okay.
I'm going to do it.
You can tell in yourself that.
The last.
You're the bride.
Didn't ring in the man.
Of course.
And you know, I only say that because when you came in,
to tell end of, you know, you ready to, you know,
you know,
you're ready to, you know,
you're bored and you're trapped and you're good.
Even though you made me look,
you looked at me in a way that I was like,
okay, cool.
I could get changed right now.
What's what is that?
What you just said was Britain all over your face.
Like you came in there or some,
you know, there are some people here.
You know, boom, jocos, you know,
you know, here taking some pictures or whatever.
And me and all I'm like,
you see me and I've seen your face like,
oh man, you're a weird training like you're lucky.
And here's the actual funny,
but I'm just remembering that part.
The funny part is when you walked out on the mat,
you took off your shoes, you walk out of the mat.
And when you walk up on the mat,
I think this is just kind of in all of us anyway.
So where you sort of like,
you feel like for lack of energy at the mat.
So that's why it feels weird.
If you have your regular clothes on and you walk out on the mat,
you're like,
you feel weird.
So it's not jamming or it's not vibing together, you know?
So you walked out on the mat.
You're like the looking,
you're like,
you're kind of warming up for something like that.
Because think of how many thousands and thousands of times
when I take off my flip,
flops,
my slippers when we used to call them in Hawaii.
I take off my slippers and go on the mat.
That means something.
That's like,
it's like going to use to put down my nods on my helmet.
Flip down your nods,
all the sudden it's like,
okay,
it's on.
You're locking the original,
you're like,
okay.
You're locking the original,
you're wetping all the time,
you do it in your,
oh,
you're like,
okay,
cool.
This is it.
So I walk out on the mat,
take off my slippers,
walk out on the mat.
You felt the littleikal.
And
you know,
it's like,
and I see you kind of
giving off a vibe,
vibe, right?
When I think because you were you were literally pacing.
Oh, and here's the thing.
We weren't being hostile making jokes like that kind of wasn't like,
we were in church.
It wasn't that we were talking about something like for a like legitimately normal,
but you were pacing out there.
Oh, I was like, I wanted to see.
Straight right back to that.
That pissed me off.
Amen.
That's life.
Actually, that's the go.
Okay.
So, you just do that's one of the many good things about you.
You just do that mentioned this before where it's like so good exercise.
So good mentally physically like all this stuff.
It's literally fun.
Yeah, it's literally fun.
Yeah, like if you come in and this goes for me, even if I'm like there just to record whatever
and not to train for a like I'm here for a specific reason, not to train or whatever.
And I come and I see people training whatever.
I literally feel like I'm missing out like I'm missing.
You know how like when your friends go hang out and go do something and you gotta stay
home and like do a normal one for sure.
Yeah, it felt like you felt you kind of missed out.
I did.
It's all good.
But to me, this podcast is very good.
So I'm kind of glad you did and the good news about it is you're just going to be
here.
This is going to be your tomorrow.
It's going to be here next week.
But I can't ever get this day back of training.
Yeah, by the bed little something.
Yeah, I think I'd learn to maybe next time.
It's all part of the game.
Up, downs.
You know, every single day.
Almost sounded like a threat.
No, sorry.
It is not to late to train.
It is right now.
Because we will do it.
Uh, not a threat.
You know, I'm just saying that's that's how it goes sometimes.
You said a little something.
I meant learning wise.
Good.
You know, the last.
Hey, it will be here.
And actually, which kind of led and support to the point that, hey, not everyone is doing
you just right now.
But guess what?
This should be.
If you go tomorrow, it'll be there.
If you walk in tomorrow.
Yeah.
And also if you walk in and it's your first thing, you don't know anything about it.
There's other people.
Everyone on that mat has been there.
There's nothing to be embarrassed about, you know, go get on the mat.
And if I can chance, sorry, that's a good point right there.
These chances are more people are going to be like new people.
Yes.
They're in advance for.
Or probably, what would you say would be the average if you go on any ran?
No.
And ran a lot of times they have the beginners class, which is even bigger percentage.
Yeah.
New people.
I think it's a bell curve.
Yeah, it's like half, right?
Well, you say a half for weight.
A bell curve.
Bottom 10% like they don't know anything.
Or they vote.
Bottom 10% three months or less of training.
The middle is whatever, anywhere between three months and five years.
And then there's like the top 10% have been training for actually at our school is a lot more
than yeah, that we are a little heavy on the top end.
What have you on the bottom end, too?
No, it's a little heavy on the top end.
No, no, no, you're, your, your, our school is so big.
And like, you know, there's the key part.
There's no key then it's like where, you know, like they advance guys.
But I'm just saying like, what I get on the mat, there's most, there's so many people
that have five years, eight years, 10 years, it's a lot of people.
Yeah, that's true.
But there's a bunch of people, too, that just started.
Right.
You know what, what it could be.
And then again, I'm over here just researching it right now in my head where it could
be.
That's not research, right?
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
That's just thinking.
Maybe when you go out on the mat and you see all our advance guys, or should I say all the
guys that are here that are advanced, Chence, or you know them.
So they're like, oh man, we have a lot of them, you know, whatever, but me and my life
is the same thing about people that I don't know.
Yeah, I guess, yeah, that's true, too.
Because I don't know that guy.
He must not ever train before.
He could be training for a year.
Right.
Yeah, that's true, too.
I mean, most, if someone's training you for a year, I know.
Yeah, but, yeah, it's different.
It's a different.
But yeah, I think so.
But, and, but then you have to think about the belt distribution curve, too.
It's like super bottom heavy, because as you progress up the belt ranks, either progress,
yeah, so exactly right, because you progress out of the belt or out of Gigiitu.
Right.
Okay, so you mentioned ghee, no ghee.
What does all that mean?
Thanks, Chuck.
Anyway, I get a ghee, get an origin ghee, everybody knows that's the best ghee in the
world straight up.
Factually, you mentioned facts versus opinions is the fact that an opinion happens to
be made in America along with other stuff.
OriginMain.com.
Yes, always where we get these things that are made in America.
All this stuff.
Including 100% made in America?
Yes.
What about where the substances that they're made of, where those things from?
Like the cotton that's grown.
Yes.
So they can put it through the loom.
Yeah.
A million different moving parts in the loom, by the way.
And made into the fabric that is woven and then constructed into various items.
Okay.
Including ghee's and including jeans.
Oh yeah, jeans.
Boots.
T-shirts, shirts and rash guards.
So it is clothing is what we're talking about.
Beanie's.
Okay, so you can get a lot of clothing.
Made in America.
Best clothing ever.
In the world, factually.
Yeah.
How many jeans have I owned in my life?
Probably.
Okay, my don't life, I've probably owned.
Let's call it.
Not a lot.
There's not a lot of jeans.
Because I would have jeans for like eight years.
Right?
Seems like probably.
Maybe eight years as long.
But anyways, I'd have jeans for a while.
I probably had 20 pairs of jeans in my adult life.
Now, my jeans, origin jeans are the best jeans that I've ever worn.
Now, I can't say I've ever worn a pair of $640.
What do those call?
Like, skinny, no.
I haven't even owned any of those.
I haven't had any of the low-rise boot cuts.
Yeah, like, well, no, I mean, what's the word?
Designer jeans.
Even, even at the height of designer jeans, which, by the way, at the height of all
that stuff, MMA was totally wrapped around that stuff.
All right.
Like, if you were to develop, if you were to find
a picture in 2008 of a bunch of MMA guys of which you and I both were, there is a high
percentage that 50% of the individuals in that picture would be wearing jeans that had
non-functional aspects to them.
I think you're right.
And therefore, they would be determined as designers and they cost, you know,
several hundred dollars.
Yeah.
So, even at the height of that, you cannot find pictures of me in jeans that have
non-functional aspects.
You know, only find me in jeans that have functional aspects.
I believe that.
So, check.
You can get jeans from a large amount that are functional.
Functional slightly.
There's no designer.
No designer.
No, no fashion.
Do they fashion?
No fashion.
The form follows function.
So, do they look appropriate?
Absolutely.
Yeah.
There you go.
Do they have spirit?
Yes.
Do they have soul affirmative?
Yeah.
Okay.
Well, they're the only jeans that I wear.
So, you know, obviously, I'm not, I'm trying to tease out the stuff.
Oh, you got yourself a bit.
You milked it.
No, not the Delta.
Oh, you got yourself a 16-year-old.
Yeah.
Just a regular, you know, functional.
That's a good idea.
Oh, yeah.
Very good though.
Nonetheless, yes, OriginMaint.com.
You can get all this stuff.
Also supplements.
Joint warfare, krill oil.
These are for your joints.
Maintain.
Stay in the game.
For real.
You can be super strong.
You can squat 600 pounds.
Literally.
If you can squat 600 pounds, but your joints are jamming you up.
But you're not squatting nothing.
No.
You may be able to do your warm-up set.
Yeah.
And then just sort of not squat.
Whatever deadlift you're doing.
Just joint warfare.
It's krill oil.
These are very good for your joints.
And then we'll keep you in the game.
Discipline and discipline go.
I'm not going to say that I lived off of it on my last week and a half when I was getting
zero sleep and just having to do interviews with people.
Well, those things end at what?
Nine technically, but you just go, right?
Because you don't like leave.
Oh, no, no.
No, that's cool.
Though the live gigs for sure, but getting interviewed by whatever different
channels I had to wake up at one o'clock in the morning to go on coast to coast.
A.M.
Have you ever listened to that?
Not that it knows.
Anyways, I always up at one o'clock in the morning.
One to three.
And then whatever, six, 45, I was sitting in a studio on national TV getting interviewed.
You know, like, so no sleep, no food, no factor.
Guess what?
Discipline go, get some.
You can feel it.
But the can, you can feel it.
Make some jockel Palmer totally good to go.
Get your A game on and it and take yourself one of the discipline go.
Pills.
Get that.
Hitter.
Mulk, by the way.
Yeah.
Mulk.
Is there?
Mulk, I was like, because I've been, you know, I have the big,
uh, what is it?
Containers.
But I have the packages left over from mustard.
Whatever are these been nice.
Do, does origin?
Yes.
Sell the packs.
Okay.
So yeah, if you just real, just want to hit her.
That's hit her.
You know what?
Say, I'm mulk extra protein in the form of a dessert.
Hitter or otherwise.
Fitter or full dessert.
I know if you're going to be about the water kid mulk as well for the kid.
So that way you don't have to kid your feed your kid poison.
Unbeknownst to them.
They think you're giving them a treat.
Which you are.
An evil treat.
If it's filled with sugar or you can give him something that's good for you.
Yeah, the front end.
That's good for them.
So we're, you know, the deal with the devil, right?
You know, the deal with the devil.
That whole expression.
Okay.
So I'm like, what does that even mean?
That's, you know what it is.
It's really kind of simple.
And you actually essentially talk about it.
It's like basically you do something for a short term versus the expenses at the
long term.
The devil wants you to take the short term scenario.
Yeah.
So that's what the treats a lot of the time for the kids are.
To deal with the devil.
It's like, oh my gosh, this is so happy with you.
Oh my gosh, they're so, you know, they're behaving so well right now.
Yeah.
Because of the treat and they're so happy.
Look at their little smiles.
Look at their little diabetics.
Souls being saved by sugar.
No, yeah.
That's the devil collecting.
Collecting on his deal.
Yeah.
So don't do that.
Jocquity.
Yes.
Also, jocquity.
I'm into the cans more than the brew.
I'm into both.
Yeah.
I can see that.
But yeah, I'm wearing to the cans.
No, we can buy the way.
Right.
Also, jocquity store.
It's called jocquity store.
And this is where you can get more shirts.
More hoodies, beanies, rashguards, rashguards.
Oh yeah.
More representative of the path directly.
Indeed.
You're looking at me like you want me to say something else.
No, I'll say yes.
You're right.
Yeah.
Well, there you go.
You can do it.
What's funny, actually, what's funny about you saying this is when I see someone and like
at the live events, of course, saw a lot of people that were.
We're representing on the path.
And I would say to them, you're representing on the path.
Yeah.
So it's your little statement that you make about representing on the path.
Has now become part of the lexicon of the troopers.
Good.
There you go, echo Charles.
Well, good.
Yeah.
I feel like that sort of sort of was your contribution.
Pressing record and saying that.
The lexicon.
Yeah.
What does lexicon mean?
Like the verbiage, the words that we use.
Oh, all right.
Boom.
There you go.
And yes, it is always coming.
Let's face it, man.
Like you see anywhere.
Even at an event, you see somebody representing.
You're like, you know, you feel a little something.
There's a connection.
Yeah.
Big time.
And the less jockel store.com, if you like something, get something.
Represent, man.
Represent.
See you in the wild.
Oh, recognize.
And if you like listening to this podcast, which if you don't, you're not hearing this right now.
So I guess we're just talking to the people, everyone.
That's listening to this right now.
Because if you don't like the podcast, you're not listening.
So if you do, subscribe to it.
Yes.
Is it important to subscribe?
It's not not important.
It's not a throwaway thing.
Yeah.
So it's some must be.
But yeah.
Let's think when you subscribe to the podcast, it's sort of like when you're a little kid and you got some new sneakers.
And it makes you feel a little bit faster.
When you actually click subscribe, you like it.
You know, it's a level of commitment that you're making to, you know, to the path.
Yeah.
It's more of a simple.
It's not.
I feel like it's more of a symbolic commitment.
Because let's face it.
You can just you click on subscribe just as easy easily as subscribe, you know, in case like if you don't like it or whatever.
But you know what, functionally, no, functionally look.
If you live depends on where you listen to it, I get it.
But functionally, you click subscribe.
It goes into your little that little part where you don't have to do a search now or nothing like this.
And boom, you know, it's in your, it's in your whole thing.
It's part of your day.
Part of your life.
So I think I'm actually correct.
Yes.
And you're initial assessment of my statement is wrong.
Okay.
When you subscribe, you take one step further down the path.
That is true.
You're correct.
Cool.
And don't forget about the grounded podcast, which I'm sure we'll do another one.
And don't forget about the warrior kid podcast, which I will get some of those done.
And don't forget about warrior kid soap.
Irishoctrr ranch.com.
That's a warrior kid who's actually got a business going.
Young, young, making soap.
So that what week, his contribution to society, making soap so that we all can.
Stay clean.
You're correct.
Also YouTube for the video version of this podcast.
Like people watch it.
Makes sense.
In fact, you know, sometimes not all the time, but sometimes the video version will come out, you know, a half day.
It's a month, even a day later than the, than the audio.
Some people freak out about that.
Well, where's the YouTube?
Where's the wins, when's it coming out?
And it's kind of like, hey, no, they say wins the podcast coming out.
Or say, brother podcast, pin out.
But, and I'm like, no, you know what?
They like, they watch it.
And it makes sense too.
Smart TVs and whatnot.
And the last, we do have a YouTube channel for this method of consumption.
You don't tie a young tie from origin.
Yes, I do.
He, him and his friends, they like on a Friday night,
they're like, uh, put, put YouTube on and just watch the podcast, watch Rogan's podcast, whatever.
Like, that's, that's what they're doing.
Yeah.
As if they're watching UFC, but no, they're watching us talk about, you know, pat or whatever.
Yeah, well, and it kind of makes sense where you, when you think about it,
so the content lies, okay, good content is a content.
It's good content.
But to sit around and watch like remember, like old school back the day out,
and I'll 60 minutes, I'm sure it's still on.
Whatever. It's like, oh, yeah, 60 minutes special with, I don't know,
Michael Jordan or what, I don't know, whoever they have on there.
And it's just one person talking to the other person asking questions.
Q and A, essentially.
I guess people watched it.
Yeah, same thing.
Same thing.
It makes up the contents a little bit different.
Of course.
So that's a better.
I think it's better.
Yes.
You know what's, I mean, yeah, because 60 minutes, it didn't even 60 minutes.
Yeah, it says it's commercials in there.
And then there's three stories.
You're actually getting 12 minutes or seven minutes.
What can you learn about patents, theories of combat in seven minutes?
Just learning like maybe partially, one of them.
Maybe maybe maybe.
Maybe.
No doubt.
Now the last time keep that up.
And all his friends hanging with him.
Yeah, I mean, keep that up.
That's good.
Psycho.
I want to show off her.
Oh, yeah, YouTube channel.
Yeah, we have YouTube channel.
That was the point of my whole thing.
Oh, and people should subscribe to it.
I say they should.
Yeah.
That's the same.
Okay, official.
It is the thing that's cool is your influences what you see on your YouTube home page.
Which I'm.
Look, I have YouTube red.
Me too.
Or whatever.
YouTube premium.
Yeah.
They called it now.
You should be red.
I'm in school.
And look, I'm not trying to, I'm not trying to make Google more money by telling you to get
YouTube red or YouTube premium.
But it's nine bucks a month.
And you don't have to watch a single advertisement on YouTube ever again.
Oh, yeah, because they'll sneak up.
In the middle of the podcast.
I'll sneak up.
I know I saw on YouTube comments on one of our podcasts.
Someone said, uh, can't believe you're advertising it.
And I don't know.
Can't believe the advertising that popped up it.
Whatever.
And I said, can't believe you won't pay nine dollars a month.
They never have to have to watch the advertisement again.
Premium YouTube.
Yeah.
Worth every penny.
I don't show that out there either, man.
You know me.
I don't like to spend that extra money.
Right.
But it doesn't make sense because like, okay, so I have like a handfully YouTube channels.
Mm.
And they're not all premium.
So when I go to the other channels to do whatever and then I like whatever
free at the sign back in or whatever.
And then the commercial pop up.
I'm like, bro, like, you got trauma times.
Right.
It's an event.
Yeah.
That'll have to be like, I'll be one of my kids will show me something.
Oh, hey, watch this YouTube video.
And so they're like, I'll go, oh, cool.
Let me see.
And they pass me their phone or whatever.
Okay, play.
And I'll pop up some advertisement and I'll throw the phone at the wall.
Get a job and get YouTube premium anyways.
Don't forget about psychological warfare.
I tunes Google play and be three platforms.
A little something to help you maintain your discipline when it counts.
And also to help you maintain your discipline.
We got flip side canvas, which is owned by Dakota Meyer.
Help you visually maintain your discipline.
Also got a warrior kid stuff on there.
We got Mikey in the dragon stuff on there.
All kinds of good stuff on flip side canvas.com.
As far as books go, got some books.
We got the leadership strategy and tactics field manual.
Thank you everyone for getting that book.
I appreciate it.
It's live now in stores everywhere.
If you need to get some for every single human being that you know, you can get them.
They're available.
Got way out of the warrior kid three.
And way out of the warrior kid two and way out of the court.
Where you can one.
So check those out as well.
If you have a kid, if you know a kid, if you want to help a kid, if you want to help a kid,
if you want to help a kid become a better human being and a literally have a better life.
Get them those books.
Mikey in the dragons.
Same thing.
Kids are scared.
The world is a horrible place.
Let them learn how to overcome their fear.
Mikey in the dragons.
Discipline because freedom field manual.
How to get after it.
Extreme ownership, dichotomy, leadership.
Myself and my brother, Dave Babin.
Talking about the principles that we learned in combat and how you can apply them.
Into your business and into your life.
Two.
You can also have one of us.
Come and talk to your company.
One of us on the echelon front team.
You know who they are.
What we do is solve problems through leadership.
So go to echelon front dot com for details on that.
EF online.
Leadership training is non-noculation.
You need to follow up.
You need to drill.
And the way you do that is with eF online dot com.
Interactive leadership training.
We have the master.
Master coming up.
Go to extreme ownership dot com.
If you want to come to a two day seminar.
Conference engagement about leadership.
There's three from this year.
Everyone that we've ever done has sold out.
These are going to sell out to and once they sell out, you can't come.
And there's nothing we can do about it.
We can't like we have the space and then it sells out.
There's no more space.
So if you want to come go to extremotorship dot com.
And then EF overwatch and EF.
Legion.
If you need people at your business.
That know how to win and know how to lead and understand extremotorship.
And the principles.
Therein.
Then go to EF.
EF Legion or EF overwatch.
And if you are a military veteran.
Transitioning out of the military and transitioning into your next mission.
Go to EF overwatch or EF Legion.
And we will connect you with the company that is awaiting for you to come and lead.
And if you want to hear more.
From Eko Charles.
If you want to hear more from me.
If you have a question, a comment and answer.
Then you can get in touch with us through the interwebs on Twitter, on Instagram.
And on the face.
Hulk.
Eko is at Eko Charles and I am at Jocca Willink and thanks to everyone for listening to this podcast.
A podcast that would not be possible without your.
Is that a part?
So thanks for listening.
And thanks for spreading the word and thanks for telling your friends.
And thanks for getting some deaf core gear or some origin gear.
All of which supports the podcast.
Well, and of course, the true reason for this podcast.
Existence is because of the safety and security.
We receive from the soldiers sailors, airmen and marines who defend us with their very lives.
So thanks to all of you and to our police and law enforcement, our firefighters and paramedics,
our EMTs and dispatchers, our correctional officers and border patrol and secret service.
And all of you first responders, you also.
Provide us with safety and security.
And we thank you for that and to everyone else out there.
Remember, remember that like what Pat and said, all heroes are not story book combat fighters.
No, every single man plays a vital role.
Everybody has a job to do.
Every man is a vital link in a great chain.
Every man does his job.
Every thing that the job that you're doing is unimportant.
You're playing a role.
And Pat makes it clear that when you're doing your job, the key is don't ever let up.
Don't ever let up.
Instead, every minute of every day, go out there and get after it.
And until next time, this is Echo and Jocco out.